Background:
The appellant corporation, Burrus Mills, Inc., appealed a decision from the District Court of Hamilton County (Texas) challenging the jurisdictional ruling. The dispute originated with a turkey raising agreement made between appellees (M. M. Phillips and his wife) and defendants J. B. Woodard, D. E. Bullock (both residents of Hamilton County), and Burrus Mills, Inc. (a corporation residing in Dallas County). H. H. Weatherby, an employee and agent of Burrus Mills, had negotiated with the plaintiffs and individual defendants in 1951 regarding this agreement. The agreement, formalized in early 1952, stipulated that the defendants would deliver turkey poults that were free of contagious disease to the plaintiffs for production purposes.

The delivered poults, however, were infected with a deadly and contagious poultry disease known as fowl typhoid. This resulted in the death of 1034 poults and damaged the health of the remaining birds, ultimately reducing their market value, particularly their suitability for sale as breeding stock. The court found the appellees' premises were clean and disease-free prior to the delivery of the diseased poults.

The trial court also recognized that Woodard and Bullock were agents of the corporation, and their business with the appellees was intimately connected such that both could be joined to avoid multiple lawsuits. Burrus Mills, Inc. was found to have maintained a fixed and permanent agency in Hamilton County through Woodard and Bullock, who were conducting business under J. B. Woodard Produce.

The trial court found that the defendants were negligent, as their delivery of diseased poults was a breach of both express and implied warranties of the health of the poults, as well as a proximate cause of the plaintiffs' damages. Additionally, the court found no merit in the claim that the appellees had knowledge of the poults' diseased condition upon delivery.

Verdict:
The appellate court is expected to uphold the judgment of the trial court if there is evidence of a probative nature to support it. As the case was decided without a jury, the appellate court should not replace the trial court's factual findings unless the trial court's findings are unsupported by the record. The appellate court, upon inspecting the evidence carefully, should determine that the trial court's findings are backed by evidence of a probative nature, and thus, they should sustain the judgment of the trial court that overruled the appellant's plea of privilege.

The appellant's points challenging the trial court's findings on warranties, the negligence of the defendants, the alleged knowledge by the appellees of the poults' diseased condition, and the agency relationship between Woodard, Bullock, and Burrus Mills, Inc. are to be overruled. The trial court should be deemed correct in its decision, finding the plaintiffs, M. M. Phillips and his wife, had sufficiently proved a cause of action against both the resident defendants and the appellant.

It would be held that the rule cited in Stockyards National Bank v. Maples, which pertains to intimate connection between causes of action against resident and nonresident defendants to avoid multiplicity of lawsuits, applies to this case. Hence, all complaints from the appellant should be dismissed, and the judgment should stand as delivered by the trial court.