Background:
The appellants in this case are the family members of Florentino Rivera Sanchez, the decedent, who was killed in a vehicular collision on May 2, 1967. The decedent was attempting to turn left onto Linda Vista Street from East Houston Road, when his pickup truck was struck by an oil company tank truck driven by appellee Billings. The collision occurred at a high enough impact to carry both vehicles into a service station on the east side of the road, where a fire broke out and Sanchez suffered fatal burns.

The appellants filed a wrongful death action against Billings, claiming that he was negligent for driving over the posted speed limit of 35 miles per hour and that his negligence caused the collision. During the trial, the jury found that Billings was indeed traveling in excess of the speed limit but concluded that this was not the proximate cause of the accident. Instead, the jury determined the decedent's turning in front of Billings' truck, which was approaching close enough to constitute an immediate hazard, was the proximate cause of the accident.

The appellants challenged the judgment on several fronts, including the exclusion of habitual evidence regarding Billings' nicknames and prior speeding violations intended to establish that Billings' speeding was the sole proximate cause of the collision. They also disputed the jury's findings related to statutory and common law negligence, proximate cause, maintenance of a proper lookout, timely application of brakes, failure to turn to the left, and responses to special issues of contributory negligence. Additionally, they objected to the exclusion of testimony regarding "normal" turning distances and speeds, the alleged inability of the jury to use a microscope to examine tachograph charts, and other testimonies by expert witnesses.

Verdict:
The court will affirm the judgment of the lower court based on several key points. Firstly, they will uphold the necessity for appellants to prove not only negligence but also proximate cause, as required by Texas law. Given that the jury found that excessive speed was not the proximate cause of the accident, the appellants would fail to establish their cause of action.

Secondly, the court will find no abuse of discretion in excluding habit evidence, since the existence of an eyewitness made such evidence unnecessary and of minimal probative value. They will also rule that the exclusion of testimony about "normal" turning speeds and the usage of a microscope by the jury were within the discretion of the trial court and that any error in this regard would be harmless.

The court's reasoning will include determinations that the jury's verdict was not in great disregard of the preponderance of the evidence. Given that the jury had sufficient evidence to conclude that Billings was operating his vehicle at a speed closer to, but not definitively above, the speed limit, they will argue the judgment was not against the weight and preponderance of the evidence.

Lastly, the court will dismiss the appellants' points of error challenging the jury’s finding on maintenance of a proper lookout, the application of the brakes, and failure to turn to the left, as well as objections on the submission of special issues regarding contributory negligence. The verdict will be supported by the testimony and evidence produced at trial, which will be considered sufficient for the jury to make a reasonable determination of the facts.

Overall, the court will support the jury’s findings that Billings was not negligent in a manner that proximately caused the collision and that the decedent's actions were the proximate cause of the accident. As such, the appellants' claims will not prevail, and the judgment that the plaintiffs take nothing will stand.