Background:
Appellant Bradley Alan Jacobson was injured while attempting to stop the demolition of a building that was property secured by a promissory note held by the Jacobson Family Trust I. Jacobson sued Avi Ron, the appellee and owner of the building, for premises liability and general negligence. Jacobson argued that Ron failed to maintain the property, did not erect fencing, created a dangerous condition, and was liable under the "rescue doctrine," as Jacobson was attempting to rescue the collateral (the building) from destruction. Ron purchased the property from the Trust, and with a portion of the note outstanding, began demolishing the building. Jacobson, directed by the trustee (his mother), attempted to intervene in the demolition but fell and injured his knee on debris. Ron moved for summary judgment on the grounds that he had negated the elements of duty, breach, and causation in Jacobson's claims. Ron argued that he was not liable for maintaining the property, that the "rescue doctrine" did not apply to property, and that he was not liable for the actions of Delaney Construction Company, the independent contractor performing the demolition. Ron appended evidence that included promissory note and deed of trust, his and others' deposition testimonies. Jacobson countered with evidence to refute Ron's contentions. The trial court granted summary judgment in favor of Ron, leading Jacobson to appeal the decision.


Verdict:
The court, in assessing the verdict, will affirm the trial court's decision based on several key points. Firstly, the court will consider Jacobson a licensee, since he entered the property at the trustee's direction and on business for someone other than the possessor (the trustee). As a licensee, Jacobson would only be owed a duty by Ron if there were dangers unknown to him. Since the evidence shows that Jacobson was aware of the rubble and the uneven ground when he attempted to approach the bulldozer, the condition was not hidden and hence Ron had no duty to warn him or make the area safe. Consequently, the court will rule that Ron is not liable under premises liability as he had no duty to cordon off the area or to make it safe for Jacobson, as Jacobson had actual knowledge of the danger.

Regarding the application of the rescue doctrine, the court will rule that it does not extend to cover the rescue of property. Jacobson asserted that Ron negligently created a dangerous condition with the foreseeable outcome being Jacobson's intervention to rescue the property. However, the court will find no basis in governing authority or sound reason to apply the rescue doctrine in this instance. The doctrine is meant to support heroic acts of individuals rescuing others from imminent peril, but no other individual was in peril in this case. The court, therefore, finds that the rescue doctrine is inapplicable to Jacobson's general negligence claim.

Based on these determinations, the court will conclude by affirming the summary judgment granted in favor of Ron, ruling that Ron did not breach any duty that could have contributed to Jacobson's injury, and determining that the rescue doctrine does not apply to the circumstances of this case.