Background:
On August 7, 1993, Lee Jones, a mentally-ill individual, entered the Howard Johnson Hotel located in Sharpstown, Texas at around 2:00 p.m., after being released from a mental facility. Lee obtained quarters from the desk clerk and made multiple phone calls to his brother, Carver Jones, throughout the afternoon and evening. Carver Jones spoke to a hospital which agreed to admit Lee to the psychiatric unit.

At about 9:30 p.m., Lee had a conversation with Security Officer Pringle and asked for a cigarette, then went to the restroom, and upon his return asked for another cigarette. At this point, Carver arrived at the hotel and a heated argument ensued between the brothers. Carver left to use the telephone. During this time, Lee asked Pringle if he could handle his gun, to which Pringle said no and turned to leave. Lee then managed to take the gun from Pringle's holster, and Carver, upon returning from the phone, ran back to call 911 after hearing a gunshot. He discovered his brother had shot himself.

Carver Jones sued various parties associated with the hotel and security service, including the hotel, the hotel manager, the security firm, and the security officer for negligence and gross negligence claiming they (1) gave a weapon or allowed the decedent to acquire the weapon; (2) negligently hired an improperly trained security guard; and (3) failed to guard against and warn of an unreasonably dangerous condition. The defense moved for summary judgment claiming no duty to prevent the decedent's suicide to either Carver Jones or Lee Jones, and that Lee's suicide was the sole proximate cause of Carver's damages.

Verdict:
The court will affirm the trial court's order granting summary judgment to the defendants: hotel, hotel manager, security firm, and security officer. The justification for this decision will include that no duty of care was owed by any of the defendants to prevent the decedent, Lee Jones', suicide. The court will reason that such a duty was not established either by the principles of general negligence or under premises liability laws.

In assessing the duty of care, the court will consider several factors, such as risk and foreseeability of injury, weighed against factors such as the social utility of the actor's conduct, the magnitude and consequences of guarding against injury. With these principles in mind, the court will find no special or enhanced duty of care that was violated by the defendants, particularly with respect to securing the firearm from a non-threatening individual. The court will observe that the unpredictable act of suicide by a third party is generally considered an intervening act that absolves the defendants of negligence in this context unless the act was foreseeable due to a special relationship, such as that between a psychiatrist and patient, which does not exist in this case.

Further, the court will cite the absence of evidence to suggest the security guard or the hotel staff knew or should have known about Lee Jones' potential danger to himself (foreseeability) or that any negligent conduct leading up to the incident was sufficiently linked to the injury (proximate cause). The court will also highlight that Carver Jones had more of an awareness of the decedent's mental health condition than the defendants, undermining the claim that the hotel or its security personnel should have anticipated or prevented the suicide.

Accordingly, since none of the defendants owed a particularly high duty of care towards Lee Jones or Carver Jones under the circumstances presented, and Lee's actions were of his own volition and an independent intervening act, the court will determine that the defendants are not liable for Lee's suicide, and there are no material fact issues that preclude the granting of summary judgment.