Background:
Appellant motorist, Grant Morris, was injured when his vehicle collided with a tractor-trailer operated by Jerry Lee Largent on a Saturday night. Largent was intoxicated at the time of the accident and was driving the tractor-trailer from his sister's home to the owner's maintenance yard after a personal errand. The vehicle belonged to Hammer Trucking, Inc., which had entered into an exclusive equipment lease agreement with JTM Materials, Inc. for the operation of the leased equipment. Both JTM and Hammer Trucking retained rights to control the operation and supervision of the leased equipment. JTM determined Largent was qualified to drive the tractor-trailer based on a background check and drug screening test. However, JTM failed to acquire a Department of Public Safety driving report for Largent or conduct a criminal background check.

Following the accident, Morris sued JTM and DVC, Inc. for various claims surrounding the theories of negligent hiring, retention, supervision, entrustment, respondeat superior, borrowed servant, joint enterprise, civil conspiracy, and vicarious liability. JTM moved for summary judgment which the trial court granted, without stating its grounds, on all of Morris's claims, except the claims of negligent hiring, supervision, retention, and entrustment, which were reversed and remanded. Morris contended that JTM was subject to the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations (FMCSR) and therefore vicariously liable as a matter of law for Largent’s negligence. Morris also argued JTM had a duty to control the tractor-trailer’s operation according to the equipment lease agreement and Texas statutes.

Verdict:
The part of the summary judgment relating to vicarious liability, negligent hiring, retention, and supervision, and negligent entrustment claims was reversed and those claims remanded. The appellate court found that, if JTM is an interstate motor carrier, they are vicariously liable as a matter of law under the FMCSR for Largent's negligence. They also decided that JTM's claim that the vehicle had not been dispatched for JTM and Largent's lacked authorization to drive the vehicle did not conclusively establish that Largent's driving while intoxicated on the date of the accident was not reasonably foreseeable, thus not establishing new and independent cause.

The part of the summary judgment on the respondeat superior, civil conspiracy, joint venture, and joint enterprise claims, and the denial of Morris's motion for partial summary judgment, were affirmed. The court found no evidence that Largent was in the course and scope of his employment during the accident. The designation of Hammer Trucking as an independent contractor was not found to be unlawful, and since Hammer Trucking and JTM did not share an equal right to control the leased equipment or manage the enterprise, there was no joint enterprise or venture. Therefore, the trial court did not err by granting summary judgment on those claims. The appellate court's decision was based on the evidence presented and the interpretations of statutory and common law obligations of an interstate motor carrier and the duties relating to the control and operation of the leased equipment.