Background:
The background of this case involves an incident in a store owned by the appellant employer, Grand Leader Dry Goods Company, Inc., resulting in injuries to two employees, appellee Kathryn M. Caveness and another employee, Mrs. Bradshaw. The case occurred on April 21, 1965, in Huntsville, Texas. The incident in question began when Mrs. Bradshaw, an employee of the store like Mrs. Caveness, fell over an open filing cabinet drawer that had been negligently left open, resulting in her legs being pinned by the drawer and the counter, as well as a severe cut and profuse bleeding from an apparent severed artery. Mrs. Caveness moved a heavy display counter, weighing several hundred pounds, to rescue Mrs. Bradshaw but injured her back severely during the process.

For a significant period prior to the incident, concerns had been raised about the narrow space between the display counter and the filing cabinet, with Mrs. Caveness having previously mentioned the safety issue to the store manager, Louie Cohn. At the time of the accident, the distance between them was a mere 18 1/2 inches when the filing cabinet drawers were closed. Mrs. Caveness had to undergo extended hospitalization and treatment for her injuries.

The lawsuit was filed against the employer since it did not have a workmen's compensation policy, which resulted in the employer being unable to invoke defenses such as contributory negligence, negligence of a fellow servant, and assumed risk.

The jury found the employer negligent for several reasons: leaving the drawer open, failing to provide a safe workspace, and that each of these negligent actions were proximate causes of the injuries sustained by Mrs. Caveness.

Verdict:
Anticipating the reasoning for upholding the verdict in favor of the appellees, Kathryn M. Caveness and her husband, it will be based on the jury findings which are supported by the evidence that was presented. The evidence will have demonstrated that the appellant's employees operated in an unsafe workspace, and that the conditions created by this environment were a direct result of the employer's negligence. The foreseeability of an injury occurring as a consequence of the negligence will also play a critical role in the affirmation of the verdict. The fact that one employee might attempt to aid another in peril was a natural and likely outcome of the employer's negligent act of allowing the drawer to remain open and thus will be seen as an event that the employer should have reasonably anticipated under the circumstances.

Furthermore, since Mrs. Bradshaw was acting within the scope of her employment at the time of the accident, her actions are considered to be those of the employer, and, as the employer was a non-subscriber to Workmen's Compensation, the employer will be held to a strict liability standard concerning employee injury. The verdict will support the idea that employers have a duty to maintain a safe work environment and can be held liable for foreseeable harm that arises from a failure to uphold that duty. The court will affirm the lower court's judgment for appellees based on these grounds, rejecting any claim of juror misconduct raised by the appellant as either irrelevant to the lawsuit or not constituting reversible error since some jurors did not hear the allegedly prejudicial statement or because it did not affect the outcome of the case.