Background:

Appellee A.H. Daniel, an employee of appellant Rio Bravo Oil Company, brought a personal injury action against his employer after sustaining injuries from exposure to poisonous and deadly gases while cleaning a crude petroleum oil storage tank at the Spindletop oil field in Jefferson County, Texas. The tank, which had been used for storage, contained large quantities of these gases, and Daniel claimed that the company was aware or should have been aware of their presence. He alleged that he was not warned about the dangers and that the company had been negligent on several grounds. He was seeking damages of $35,000 for injuries, including harm to his lungs, kidneys, head, nervous system, heart, and body tissues. Daniel and other fellow employees were directed by the company's foreman to clean out the tank on October 30, 1927. Daniel entered the tank via a manhole and was soon overcome by the poisonous gases, which led to him being hospitalized with various debilitating conditions that he claimed resulted in permanent damage and impairment of his ability to work and earn money.

The trial court ruled in favor of Daniel, and a jury awarded him $7,500 with an interest rate of 6% per annum from the date of the judgment. The appellant raised multiple objections to the form of the issues submitted to the jury, the refusal of the court to submit a special issue requested by the appellant, errors in court instructions on legal terms, and the sufficiency of the evidence to support the jury's verdict, which the appellant believed was excessive.

Verdict:

The court will reverse the judgment of the trial court and remand the cause for a new trial. The appellant's challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence to support the jury's finding of the extent of damages will be upheld because the evidence of the appellee's ongoing physical condition as described by both himself and Dr. Bailey, along with the causes of these conditions, will be found to be in conflict with the testimony of multiple other physicians and experts. While granting credibility to all involved medical professionals, the court will conclude that it is unreasonable for all other examined physicians to fail to detect such serious conditions if they were as pronounced as Dr. Bailey suggested.

The court will find that if appellee Daniel's condition was not the result of carbon monoxide gas poisoning, as Dr. Bailey adamantly testified, then all other medical evidence will indicate that his current condition would not have been caused by gas exposure. This conclusion is supported by the substantial and consistent testimonies of various chemists who asserted that the crude petroleum oil in its natural state does not produce carbon monoxide gas, and as such, carbon monoxide gas would not have been present in the tank Daniel was cleaning when he was exposed to harmful gases.

As a result, any claim of serious ongoing condition caused by the inhalation of carbon monoxide gas will be considered improbable as per the expert evidence presented. The appellate court will determine that the jury's verdict on damages cannot be maintained owing to the substantial doubt raised regarding the permanence and cause of Daniel's conditions, and the absence of carbon monoxide gas as a potential cause. Therefore, the case will be sent back for a new trial due to the inconclusive nature of the evidence regarding the extent of damages that can be justly awarded to the appellee.