Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n Appellant, the plaintiff below, individually, and as heir and representative of the estates of his wife and child, challenged the summary judgment of the 55th District Court, Harris County, Texas, on the motion of appellee doctor in this medical malpractice suit. \n Overview \n After both his wife and child died of AIDS, appellant, the plaintiff below, individually and as heir and representative of the estates of his wife and child, brought a medical malpractice suit against appellee doctor on grounds that a blood transfusion he ordered for appellant's wife in 1982 caused the deaths of both appellant's wife and child. The trial court granted summary judgment in favor of appellee, as proximate cause and legal duty were absent as a matter of law because at the time of the transfusion in 1982, the medical community was not yet aware of the HIV virus. The court affirmed the summary judgment for appellee, as the contraction of AIDS by appellant's wife and not-yet-conceived child was not a foreseeable proximate result of a blood transfusion known within the medical community in 1982. \n Outcome \n The court affirmed the summary judgment for appellee doctor, as all claims of appellant, the plaintiff below, individually and as heir and representative of the estates of his wife and child, failed as a matter of law since proximate causation and legal duty were absent. \n Judges: Panel consists of Chief Justice Murphy and Justices Hudson and O'Neill.   \n Opinion by: J. HARVEY HUDSON \n Opinion \n  \n  \n OPINION \n This is a medical malpractice suit brought by Appellant, Allan J. Fox, individually, and as heir and representative of the estates of Carol and Megan Fox, deceased, against Appellee, Dr. William Estrada. 1  The trial court granted summary judgment in favor of Dr. Estrada. Fox appeals, contending the trial court erred in ruling: (1) Dr. Estrada owed no duty to Megan; (2) Dr. Estrada's negligence was not the proximate cause of Megan's infection; (3) Texas does not recognize preconception torts; (4) the statute of limitations barred all claims brought by Fox, individually and on behalf of both Carol and Megan Fox. We affirm. \n  [*2]  On February 17, 1982, Carol H. Fox ("Carol") underwent gynecological surgery at Memorial City Medical Center to help her conceive a child. The following day, Carol was transfused with two units of blood. The first unit was ordered by Dr. Girgis, the anesthesiologist. The second unit was ordered by Dr. Estrada, Carol's doctor. Carol subsequently recovered from the surgery and visited Dr. Estrada for the last time in November 1982. \n On June 15, 1984, Carol gave birth to Megan Fox ("Megan"). In late 1990, Carol became ill and was hospitalized. While in the hospital, Carol tested positive for human immunodeficiency virus ("HIV"). Allan Fox, Carol's husband, and Megan were then tested for the virus. Allan tested negative, but Megan was found to be infected with the virus. Carol died of complications from acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ("AIDS") on Christmas Day, 1991. \n On August 18, 1995, Fox, individually, as next friend of Megan, and on behalf of Carol's estate, filed a medical malpractice suit against the hospital and Dr. Girgis. 2  The suit was subsequently amended to include Dr. Estrada. The suit alleged, among other things, that Estrada was negligent in ordering the transfusion.  [*3]  Megan died from AIDS-related complications on June 3, 1996. \n On January 10, 1997, Estrada moved for summary judgment based on the statute of limitations, absence of a legal duty, and absence of proximate cause. On May 16, 1997, the trial court granted summary judgment. Dr. Estrada's portion of the case was severed from the remainder of the case, and the court rendered final judgment in Estrada's favor. \n A defendant is entitled to summary judgment if he disproves an essential element of the plaintiff's causes of action as a matter of law. See Lear Siegler, Inc. v. Perez, 819 S.W.2d 470, 471 (Tex. 1991). When reviewing a summary judgment, we consider the evidence in the light most favorable to the non-movant and resolve any doubt in the non-movant's favor. See Nixon v. Mr. Property Management Co., Inc., 690 S.W.2d 546, 549 (Tex. 1985). When the summary judgment order does not include the specific grounds for the ruling, the judgment may be affirmed on [*4]  any meritorious theory presented in the motion. See Cincinnati Life Ins. Co. v. Cates, 927 S.W.2d 623, 625 (Tex. 1996). \n In his first and second points of error, Fox contends the trial court erred in finding Estrada owed no legal duty to Megan and his negligence was not the proximate cause of Megan's death. Estrada responds by arguing the injuries to Megan and Carol were not foreseeable and that proximate cause and legal duty are absent as a matter of law. We agree. \n An injury is foreseeable if "a person of ordinary intelligence should have anticipated the danger created by a negligent act or omission." Doe v. Boys Clubs of Greater Dallas, Inc., 907 S.W.2d 472, 478 (Tex. 1995). The question of proximate cause and foreseeability involve a practical inquiry based on "common experience applied to human conduct" and cannot be established by mere conjecture, guess or speculation. Id.  "Foreseeability requires more than someone, viewing the facts in retrospect, theorizing an extraordinary sequence of events whereby the defendant's conduct brings about the injury." Id. (citing RESTATEMENT (SECOND) OF TORTS § 435(2) (1965). \n Here, the summary judgment proof shows that [*5]  at the time of Carol's transfusion, the medical community was not yet aware of the HIV virus, much less that the virus could be transmitted via blood transfusions. According to Dr. Lawrence Goodnough's affidavit, in 1982, the disease known as AIDS and its causative virus, HIV, had not yet been identified. 3  Because the contraction of AIDS was not a foreseeable proximate result of a blood transfusion known within the medical community in 1982, Dr. Estrada could not possibly have known the transfusion could expose Carol, and her yet-to-be-conceived daughter, to such a devastating and incurable virus. See Bieling v. Battle, 209 Ga. App. 874, 878, 434 S.E.2d 719, 722 (Ga. Ct. App. 1993). \n Fox argues that Estrada need not have foreseen the specific harm which would befall Carol; rather, he need only have foreseen that the transmission of a blood-borne disease was a possible consequence of the transfusion.  [*6]  See Brown v. Edwards Transfer Co., 764 S.W.2d 220, 223 (Tex. 1988). Fox contends the medical community's knowledge of other blood borne pathogens at the time of Carol's transfusion was sufficient to establish the requisite foreseeability. \n In 1982, there were numerous risks associated with blood transfusions. For example, the medical community knew hepatitis, cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein Barr virus, malaria, syphilis, herpes, and other bacterial and parasitic infections could be transmitted through an exchange of blood. However, the mortality of these diseases was perceived to be very low. Type A hepatitis was not a significant concern because it was generally not transmitted by donated blood, and did not progress to chronic hepatitis. Type B hepatitis was known to be transmissible by transfused blood, but a screening test was available in 1982, and this test was utilized in the Houston area at that time. Moreover, the majority of patients who developed an infection from hepatitis-B fully recovered. Type C hepatitis 4  had not yet been identified in 1982, but it was known that a third form of hepatitis existed and was transmissible by blood transfusion. Hepatitis-C is fatal in [*7]  10% of the cases; however, in February 1982, the medical community did not perceive the risk of mortality to be so great. Further, two-thirds of acute hepatitis-C infections produce few symptoms. \n Although Fox attempts to equate these pathogens to the HIV virus, these diseases do not have the devastating impact of HIV/AIDS: \n Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS) is a fatal viral disease caused by a human retrovirus referred to as the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). The virus is transmitted by exposure to infected blood, sexual contact with an infected person, and prenatally, from an infected mother to her child. Infected persons are susceptible to a number of opportunistic infections and diseases which would not normally affect healthy individuals. While individuals infected with HIV may remain healthy and asymptomatic, the fatality rate of the infection is extraordinarily high: almost 100% mortality among patients with opportunistic [*8]  infections and cancers. Ultimately, AIDS destroys the body's natural immune system and affects the central nervous system, leading to mental deterioration. \n Jessamine R. Talavera, Quintana v. United Blood Services: Examining Industry Practice in Transfusion-Related AIDS Cases, 2 Cornell J. L. & Pub Pol'y 475, 478-79 (1993). More than fifteen years after its discovery, researchers have been unable to formulate a vaccine or discover a cure for the disease. See id.  \n The summary judgment proof established that the blood-borne pathogens known to exist in 1982 were treatable, rarely fatal, and did not present the same magnitude of danger to the patient as HIV/AIDS. Blood transfusions had been an accepted life-saving medical practice for many decades, and there was no indication that a killer of the order of HIV/AIDS was lurking in the nation's blood supply. Accordingly, we will not impose an obligation on the medical community in general, and Dr. Estrada in particular, to have anticipated the possibility of so devastating a disease as AIDS. See Quinones v. Long Island College Hosp., 200 A.D.2d 726, 726, 607 N.Y.S.2d 103, 104 (N.Y. App. Div. 1994). \n As to Megan, Fox argues that [*9]  because Carol underwent surgery for the express purpose of enabling her to conceive a child, the likelihood that she would become pregnant was not only foreseeable, but intended. Fox asserts that because a fetus relies on maternal fluids to live, it is foreseeable that any communicable diseases to which the mother was exposed had a high likelihood of being transmitted to the fetus in utero. However, as discussed above, Dr. Estrada had no way of knowing Carol would be exposed to HIV or its devastating effects. To find otherwise, we would have to impose knowledge and liability upon Estrada for an unknowable consequence. To impose such an obligation would essentially require the medical community to become insurers. See Bieling, 434 S.E.2d at 722. \n Arguing that a fact issue on foreseeability was presented by the summary judgment proof, Fox points to the affidavit of Dr. Goodnough. 5  In his affidavit, Dr. Goodnough states: \n  [*10]  It is my opinion, to a reasonable degree of medical probability, that Dr. Girgis breached the then existing standard of care when he ordered that Mrs. Fox be transfused on February 2, 1982. The reasonably foreseeable consequence of that transfusion was the transmission of a blood-borne disease, whether known or unknown, to Mrs. Fox and any children she might conceive in the future. \n The affidavit, however, focuses only on the alleged negligence of Dr. Girgis; it never mentions Dr. Estrada. Further, even if the affidavit had focused on Dr. Estrada's conduct, we find, as a matter of law, that a person cannot anticipate that which is totally unknown. Clairvoyance may or may not be a desirable attribute, but it cannot be utilized as a basis for liability. Appellant's first and second points of error are overruled. \n While appellant's first two points of error address only the issues of duty and proximate cause as they relate to Megan's medical malpractice claim, Dr. Estrada moved for summary judgment on the basis that "all claims of all plaintiffs fail as a matter of law since HIV/AIDS transmission was impossible to foresee in 1982, and consequently, proximate causation and legal [*11]  duty are absent as a matter of law." Because the judgment may be affirmed on any meritorious theory presented in the motion, and because the foreseeability analysis discussed above applies equally to Carol, we need not address appellant's remaining points of error. Accordingly, the judgment of the trial court is affirmed. \n /s/ J. Harvey Hudson \n Justice \n Judgment rendered and Opinion filed December 3, 1998. \n Panel consists of Chief Justice Murphy and Justices Hudson and O'Neill.   \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 