Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n Plaintiffs parents filed suit in the 342nd District Court, Tarrant County (Texas), against defendants doctors and hospital alleging negligence in the treatment of their sons. The jury found for the parents. Defendants appealed. \n Overview \n One doctor argued, inter alia, that the physician-patient relationship terminated once the doctor reported his findings to the son's physician, and a continuing physician-patient relationship was not created by a "dear parent" letter. The court of appeals agreed. The examination of the son at the hospital by the consulting doctor did not create a continuing duty upon that physician to insure that follow-up was maintained once the physician supplied the primary physician with the results unless the patient and the consulting specialist physician took further affirmative action to continue the relationship. The scheduled-but-missed appointments were insufficient to continue or create a duty, even when combined with the third-party "dear parent" letter. The "dear parent" letter, along with another doctor's opinion that it created a duty on the first doctor's part to insure follow-up visits, was less than a scintilla of evidence to uphold the jury's verdict on a vital fact--a continued physician-patient relationship. Without a physician-patient relationship, there was no duty. \n Outcome \n The judgment was reversed. \n Counsel: FOR APPELLANT ROBERT GROSS, M.D.: Haynes and Boone, L.L.P.; E. Earl Harcrow, Craig M. Price, and Karen Williams Altaras of Fort Worth, TX. \n FOR APPELLANT ALL SAINTS INTEGRATED AFFILIATES D/B/A ALL SAINTS MEDICAL ASSOCIATES AND STEPHANIE PREDUE, M.D.: Cooper & Scully, P.C.; R. Brent Cooper and Diana L. Faust of Dallas, TX. \n FOR APPELLEES: Jose, Henry, Brantley & Keltner, L.L.P.; Rickey J. Brantley, David E. Keltner, and Anna K. Alvarado of Fort Worth, TX.   \n Judges: PANEL A: LIVINGSTON and WALKER, JJ.; SAM J. DAY, J. (Retired, Sitting by Assignment). WALKER, J. filed a dissenting opinion.   \n Opinion by: TERRIE LIVINGSTON \n Opinion \n  \n  \n A jury found several defendants negligent in this medical malpractice case regarding their failure to treat and diagnose twin premature infants for retinopathy of prematurity, which resulted in permanent injury and partial blindness for the twins. The appellees, Alyssha and Keith Burt, asserted claims in their individual capacities and on behalf of their two sons, Hunter and Tyler. They asserted claims against Robert Gross, M.D., a pediatric ophthalmologist, Stephanie Perdue, M.D. and Wayne Yee, M.D., both pediatricians, All Saints Integrated Affiliates d/b/a/ All Saints Medical Associates (All Saints), Dr. Perdue's employer, and Harris Methodist Texas Health Plan, Inc. d/b/a [*2]  Harris Methodist Star Health Plan (the Plan). Prior to trial, the trial court granted Dr. Gross's motion for summary judgment as to the Burts' claims with respect to Tyler based upon the lack of a physician-patient relationship. The Burts' remaining claims proceeded to trial. The jury returned a verdict against all of the defendants except the Plan. The Burts settled with Dr. Yee. Dr. Gross, Dr. Purdue, and All Saints appealed. This appeal follows. We reverse the trial court's judgment and render judgment against the Burts on all of their claims against Dr. Gross, Dr. Perdue, and All Saints. \n  \n Factual Summary \n Hunter and Tyler were born prematurely on December 26, 1996 at Harris Methodist Hospital (Harris). They both required ventilation and some oxygenation and remained in Harris's neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) until February 1997. At birth, Tyler weighed three pounds one ounce and Hunter weighed two pounds nine ounces. They both required intravenous feeding and were diagnosed with apnea of prematurity, bradycardia of prematurity, and neonatal jaundice. Hunter also had an inguinal hernia. Further, because of his weight and prematurity, Hunter was potentially at risk for [*3]  retinopathy of prematurity (ROP), which can result in retinal scarring, retinal detachment, vision loss, and even blindness. Babies at risk of ROP require serial screening. \n In the NICU, Tyler was identified as Twin A and Hunter as Twin B. Medical records reflected their mother was Alyssha Taylor and their father was Keith Burt. Both twins were given the last name of Taylor at Harris. 1  \n Dr. Kim Smith, a neonatologist, was the admitting and attending physician for the twins while they remained in the NICU. The attending neonatologist determines whether a premature baby needs to be screened for ROP. Harris's Level III NICU has an ROP screening protocol, and when a premature infant meets the protocol's criteria, that infant's name [*4]  is placed on one of the consulting ophthalmologists' examining lists. The actual screening is performed by a pediatric ophthalmologist. At the Harris NICU, the pediatric ophthalmologist is a consulting physician requested or ordered by the attending physician, who reports back to the attending physician. Thus, Dr. Smith ordered a screening ROP examination for Hunter because he met hospital protocol for screening due to his birth weight and gestational age of twenty-nine months. Tyler did not fall within the NICU's parameters, so Dr. Smith did not order an initial ROP screening test on him. On Dr. Smith's order, Dr. Gross, who was a consulting pediatric ophthalmologist for the NICU, performed a preliminary screening examination on Hunter on February 8, 1997. Hunter was identified by Dr. Smith as Twin B at the time Dr. Gross performed the screening tests. \n Dr. Gross determined that Hunter had Stage I ROP in his right eye. He forwarded an ROP "Initial Evaluation" report of his findings and recommendations back to Dr. Smith and recommended that Hunter seek a follow-up visit within two weeks. Prior to Hunter's evaluation in the NICU, the Harris NICU nurses helped Alyssha make eye appointments [*5]  for both twins at Dr. Gross's office for February 17, after their discharge. Alyssha used the names Hunter and Tyler Burt when she made the February 17, 1997 appointments.  \n Tyler, Twin A, was discharged from the NICU on February 5, 1997, and Hunter, Twin B, was discharged on February 13, 1997, before their scheduled February 17 appointments with Dr. Gross. Dr. Smith testified that the parents had been sufficiently educated about ROP by the time of the babies' discharges. Jerri Ballard, a Harris NICU nurse, testified that in her opinion both of the parents were taught the importance and relevance of the follow-up ROP appointments in order to be discharged from the NICU. \n Upon discharge, Alyssha selected Dr. Wayne Yee, a pediatrician, to become the babies' primary care physician. Dr. Yee examined Tyler on February 12, 1997, and his external eye exam was normal. He confirmed Alyssha's appointments for both twins with Dr. Gross for the 17th. Dr. Yee testified that he discussed with the Burts the importance of making the appointments for the ROP exams. 2  A doctor-to-doctor letter from Dr. Smith to Dr. Yee specifically identified Hunter's ROP diagnosis and showed that both twins had set [*6]  up appointments with Dr. Gross for February 17. Hunter's appointment with Dr. Gross was "starred," as was his ROP diagnosis. \n The NICU also confirmed the twins' appointments with Dr. Gross for February 17, 1997. Alyssha and Keith were informed of the importance of the follow-up appointments for ROP. However, Alyssha did not take the twins to this appointment because she had no referral. Records at Dr. Yee's office show that Alyssha requested a referral from Dr. Yee to Dr. Gross on February 17, the actual day of their appointment. Dr. Yee completed the referral on February 19. \n Alyssha rescheduled the appointment for February 28, 1997; however, they missed this appointment too. In the interim, both twins had been admitted to Cook Children's Hospital (Cook's) on February 24 due to a virus. Hunter was released from Cook's on February 28 and Tyler was released on March 1. Alyssha [*7]  never called to cancel the February 28 appointment or to reschedule it. Dr. Yee testified that he had instructed Alyssha to postpone the February 28 appointment since one or both twins were about to get out of the hospital. \n As of March 1, Alyssha and Keith had become dissatisfied with Dr. Yee. At the same time, Alyssha knew they had missed two appointments with Dr. Gross. On or about March 6, 1997, the parents terminated Dr. Yee's services and switched to Dr. Stephanie Perdue as their new pediatrician. Except for Hunter's February 8 examination by Dr. Gross, Hunter and Tyler did not see a pediatric ophthalmologist until June 1997 when they were diagnosed as being legally blind. \n After trial but before the jury's verdict came in, Dr. Yee settled with the Burts for $ 7.5 million. The jury found all three doctors negligent, as well as All Saints. They found Dr. Yee liable for 50% and 60% of the damages to Hunter and Tyler, respectively; Dr. Perdue liable for 30% and 35%, respectively; Dr. Gross liable for 15% of Hunter's damages; and the parents liable for 5% of the twins' damages. The jury awarded no punitive damages against any defendant and found that the Plan was not liable at all.  [*8]  Pursuant to the settlement, the Burts dismissed their claims against Dr. Yee. The trial court entered a judgment against Dr. Gross, Dr. Perdue, and All Saints accordingly. \n  \n Issues Relative to Dr. Gross's Appeal \n In five issues, Dr. Gross challenges the judgment rendered against him. \n In his first issue, he challenges the legal and factual sufficiency of the evidence to support the jury's finding that his negligence caused any harm to Hunter. In his second issue, Dr. Gross challenges the trial court's rulings on several evidentiary issues including: the trial court's refusal to allow Dr. Gross to introduce evidence of nystagmus as an alternate theory of causation; the trial court's refusal to strike Dr. Don Schaffer's testimony that Dr. Gross was negligent; and the trial court's prohibiting Dr. Gross from offering an explanation of Hunter's name change from Taylor to Burt. In his third issue, Dr. Gross contends Alyssha and Keith cannot recover mental anguish damages because such alleged damages were not a contemporaneous result of Hunter's injuries. In his fourth issue, Dr. Gross challenges the legal and factual sufficiency of the evidence to support the various amounts the [*9]  jury awarded Hunter. In his fifth issue, Dr. Gross challenges the Burts' right to an award of prejudgment interest on future damages. 3  \n  \n Facts Relative to Dr. Gross \n When Hunter was added to Dr. Gross's screening list at the NICU, Dr. Gross performed an initial examination. The only information or record Dr. Gross maintained on Hunter was the one-page examination sheet he completed and the registration information the hospital had provided him. While it showed the parents' names as Alyssha Taylor and Keith Burt, the twins' last name was shown as Taylor. Dr. Gross did not know that Alyssha and Keith had changed the twins' last name to Burt until after they had instigated litigation.  \n  [*10]  Before beginning his examination of Hunter at the NICU, Dr. Gross reviewed Hunter's NICU chart to look for any other infections or systemic issues that might potentially affect the child's eyes. He verified the charted problems and that the name on the chart matched the name on the bassinet and the patient. He also checked the date of birth, birth weight, and gestational age at birth, and whether it was a multiple birth. When Dr. Gross saw Hunter on February 8, the NICU nurses had charted his gestational age as 30 weeks. Dr. Gross noted his birth weight of 1170 grams. \n When he completed Hunter's exam, he prepared an initial ROP report that showed his findings indicating stage I ROP in Hunter's right eye. This report showed Hunter's date of birth, gestational age, and birth weight and recommended a follow-up visit in two weeks. The report was made on a Harris form listing Alyssha Taylor and Douglas Burt 4  as parents. It was charted with the name "Hunter Taylor 'B'" and dated February 8, the day of the exam. \n  [*11]  Dr. Gross testified that it was very common for him to see only one of a group of twins or triplets. He also testified that he knew at trial that the hospital had scheduled both twins' appointments with him for February 17, but that he did not know it at the time. At Alyssha's request, his office rescheduled appointments for February 28. The twins missed that set of appointments too because they had been admitted to Cook's on February 24 and had both been discharged by March 1, 1997, but no one advised Dr. Gross or his office of this or requested that he see either of them at Cook's instead. Dr. Gross never examined Tyler and Hunter after the February 8 in-hospital exam of Hunter. \n Sometime later in February, Dr. Gross's office received the twins' referrals from Dr. Yee, which indicated a tentative diagnosis of ROP. When asked why his office did not track them down, Dr. Gross said that any patient who made appointments and rescheduled, but did not call to cancel the second appointment, was not tracked down by his office. He said it was unethical to run down patients who were "no shows" or indicated they did not desire to be treated at his office by virtue of their cancellations. According [*12]  to Dr. Gross, if an existing patient missed an appointment, the patient received a notice from his office, but the office does not send out notices to new patients. Only if the referring doctor had sent the new patient to Dr. Gross with a request for results would he have notified the referring doctor that his or her patient had not showed. \n  \n Discussion of Dr. Gross's First Issue \n Dr. Gross challenges the jury's finding that his negligence contributed to Hunter's injuries. This issue is based on Dr. Gross's assertions that 1) his limited physician-patient relationship with Hunter terminated upon completion of the initial screening for ROP; 2) he never established a physician-patient relationship with anyone named Hunter "Burt"; 3) he never acted negligently toward Hunter; and 4) no conduct of his proximately caused any injury to Hunter, Alyssha, or Keith, according to proper standards of reasonable medical probability. \n  \n Legal and Factual Sufficiency Standards of Review \n In determining a "no-evidence" issue, we are to consider only the evidence and inferences that tend to support the finding and disregard all evidence and inferences to the contrary. Bradford v. Vento, 48 S.W.3d 749, 754, 44 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 655 (Tex. 2001) [*13]  ; Cont'l Coffee Prods. Co. v. Cazarez, 937 S.W.2d 444, 450, 40 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 172 (Tex. 1996); In re King's Estate, 150 Tex. 662, 244 S.W.2d 660, 661 (1951). Anything more than a scintilla of evidence is legally sufficient to support the finding. Cazarez, 937 S.W.2d at 450; Leitch v. Hornsby, 935 S.W.2d 114, 118, 40 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 159 (Tex. 1996). More than a scintilla of evidence exists if the evidence furnishes some reasonable basis for differing conclusions by reasonable minds about the existence of a vital fact. Rocor Int'l, Inc. v. Nat'l Union Fire Ins. Co., 77 S.W.3d 253, 262, 45 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 659 (Tex. 2002). \n A "no-evidence" issue may only be sustained when the record discloses one of the following: (1) a complete absence of evidence of a vital fact; (2) the court is barred by rules of law or evidence from giving weight to the only evidence offered to prove a vital fact; (3) the evidence offered to prove a vital fact is no more than a mere scintilla of evidence; or (4) the evidence establishes conclusively the opposite of a vital fact. Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Co. v. Martinez, 977 S.W.2d 328, 334, 42 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 43 (Tex. 1998) (citing Robert W. Calvert, "No Evidence"  [*14]   and "Insufficient Evidence" Points of Error, 38 TEX. L. REV. 361, 362-63 (1960)), cert. denied, 526 U.S. 1040, 143 L. Ed. 2d 500, 119 S. Ct. 1336 (1999). \n When we sustain a "no-evidence" issue, it is our duty to render judgment for the appellant because that is the judgment the trial court should have rendered. See TEX. R. APP. P. 43.3; Vista Chevrolet, Inc. v. Lewis, 709 S.W.2d 176, 176, 29 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 255 (Tex. 1986) (quoting Nat'l Life & Accident Ins. Co. v. Blagg, 438 S.W.2d 905, 909, 12 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 286 (Tex. 1969)). \n An assertion that the evidence is "insufficient" to support a fact finding means that the evidence supporting the finding is so weak or the evidence to the contrary is so overwhelming that the answer should be set aside and a new trial ordered. Garza v. Alviar, 395 S.W.2d 821, 823, 9 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 76 (Tex. 1965). We are required to consider all of the evidence in the case in making this determination. Mar. Overseas Corp. v. Ellis, 971 S.W.2d 402, 406-07, 41 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 683 (Tex.), cert. denied, 525 U.S. 1017, 142 L. Ed. 2d 450, 119 S. Ct. 541 (1998). \n Absent an objection to the jury charge, the sufficiency of the evidence is reviewed in light of the charge submitted. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Sturges, 52 S.W.3d 711, 715, 44 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 486 (Tex. 2001); [*15]  see also City of Fort Worth v. Zimlich, 29 S.W.3d 62, 68-69, 43 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 972 (Tex. 2000). \n  \n Physician-Patient Relationship \n A cause of action based on medical negligence requires a showing of a duty to conform to a particular standard of care, a breach of that standard, a resultant injury, and a causal connection between the breach of the standard and the injury. Majzoub v. Appling, 95 S.W.3d 432, 436 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 2002, pet. denied) (op. on reh'g). Duty in a medical malpractice case is triggered by the existence of a physician-patient relationship. St. John v. Pope, 901 S.W.2d 420, 423, 38 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 723 (Tex. 1995). "The question of duty is a question of law, which a court must decide before reaching the standard of care." Majzoub, 95 S.W.3d at 436. The Majzoub court further held, "If there is no prior relationship between the physician and the patient, there must be some affirmative action on the part of the physician to treat the patient to create such a relationship." Id. A physician will not be liable for malpractice unless the breach of some duty arises from a physician-patient relationship. Id. \n Historically,  [*16]  Texas courts have required an agreement between the physician and patient or some affirmative act on the part of the physician before a legal duty arises. Wax v. Johnson, 42 S.W.3d 168, 172-73 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 2001, pet. denied). But that relationship may be established with the express or implied consent of the physician. Majzoub, 95 S.W.3d at 436. "A contract implied in fact 'arises from the acts and conduct of the parties, it being implied from the facts and circumstances that there was a mutual intention to contract.'" Lection v. Dyll, 65 S.W.3d 696, 704 (Tex. App.--Dallas 2001, pet. denied).  \n In St. John, our supreme court held, "Creation of the physician-patient relationship does not require the formalities of a contract. The fact that a physician does not deal directly with a patient does not necessarily preclude the existence of a physician-patient relationship." St. John, 901 S.W.2d at 424. But, the "on-call" status of a physician does not, without more, establish a duty. Id. "Once such a relationship exists, however, the physician then owes the patient a duty to treat him or her [*17]  with the skills of a trained, competent professional, and a breach of that duty may give rise to a malpractice action." Reynosa v. Huff, 21 S.W.3d 510, 513 (Tex. App.--San Antonio 2000, no pet.). It is the patient's burden to prove the existence of the physician-patient relationship and the resulting existence of a duty. Rampel v. Wascher, 845 S.W.2d 918, 921 (Tex. App.--San Antonio 1992, writ denied). \n In this case, Dr. Gross contends that he had no physician-patient relationship with a Hunter "Burt" and that any relationship he had with Hunter "Taylor" ended when he completed the initial screening ROP exam on February 8, 1997 in the NICU and provided Hunter's attending neonatologist with his report and diagnosis. We must determine whether that relationship terminated once Dr. Gross reported his findings to the twins' NICU physician or whether it continued. Likewise, we must also decide whether the "Dear Parent" letter described below, the Plan, or the scheduled-but-missed appointments created a continuing physician-patient relationship between Dr. Gross and Hunter. \n  \n Preservation of Error \n The dissent contends that the physician-patient relationship [*18]  issue was not submitted to the jury because the parties agreed that the court had determined as a matter of law that there was a physician-patient relationship between Dr. Gross and Hunter. Dissenting Op. at 2-3. We believe this is a mistaken interpretation of the charge conference. The Burts, not Dr. Gross, asked to submit a question as to whether Dr. Gross had a physician-patient relationship with Hunter in response to Dr. Gross's objection to the submission of the negligence question against him. 5  As we have noted above, it is the plaintiff's burden to show the existence of the physician-patient relationship before a duty exits. Rampel, 845 S.W.2d at 921. Thus, the Burts should have required the very issue the dissent says we should infer against Dr. Gross. The court said it best, "Well, to meet the objection [Dr. Gross's objection to the submission of his negligence because of no-evidence-of-duty by Dr. Gross as to the "care and treatment . . . in the office"], you [the Burts] would have to include the issue, correct? . . . . To take the objection out of the case, you [the Burts] would have to submit the issue and get a positive finding." 6  Dr. Gross's [*19]  counsel stated that he was not waiving any issue relative to denial of the physician-patient relationship on an evidentiary level, i.e., no evidence of negligence or proximate cause because of no physician-patient relationship. 7  His statement that the court had already determined there was a physician-patient relationship as a matter of law must be based on the court's prior denial of Dr. Gross's motion for summary judgment as to Hunter; in that respect the trial court had decided that there was some evidence that could support a jury finding of a physician-patient relationship at some point in time. \n Dr. Gross's post-judgment motions continued to challenge the existence of the relationship after Dr. Gross [*20]  provided his report to Dr. Smith. In Dr. Gross's motion for judgment NOV he again asserted no evidence of (a) a physician-patient relationship with Hunter, (b) negligence, and (c) proximate cause. Likewise, in his motion for new trial he continued to assert his no-evidence challenges. Thus, we conclude that Dr. Gross never conceded this issue. \n Additionally, the dissent contends we cannot determine whether the physician-patient relationship terminated upon Dr. Gross's completion of Hunter's exam and reporting of his findings to the neonatologist because Dr. Gross failed to submit or request a jury question or instruction on termination of the relationship. Dissenting Op. at 3. The dissent bases its contention on rule 279. TEX. R. CIV. P. 279. We disagree with this application of the rule for two reasons. First, it was the Burts' burden to prove the existence of a physician-patient relationship and the resulting duty. Second, rule 279 clearly states that a party may assert a legal or factual insufficiency challenge for the first time, post-verdict. Id. Thus, we believe that although the jury's verdict and resulting judgment may and do infer a finding of a physician-patient relationship [*21]  between Dr. Gross and Hunter, Dr. Gross's failure to ask for such a question or instruction does not waive his right to challenge that inferred finding on appeal. \n  \n The "Dear Parent" Letter \n While Dr. Gross contends he had discharged his duty to Hunter by examining him in the NICU and reporting the results of the examination to Dr. Smith, the Burts contend that the physician-patient relationship continued and Dr. Gross consented to further examination and treatment of Hunter, especially in light of a letter from Dr. Smith's office that was either taped to Hunter's crib in the NICU before the first exam or included with his discharge papers. In pertinent part, that letter, on Fort Worth Neonatal Associates, P.A. letterhead, said: \n Dear Parent: \n An eye examination has been scheduled for your baby this week in order to check for the presence of a condition known as Retinopathy of Prematurity (ROP); an inflammation of the retina--the coating of the inside of the eye that provides our vision. The frequency and severity of ROP is primarily related to birth weight and prematurity, with babies born very early and with the lowest birth weights having the highest risk of experiencing [*22]  ROP. . . . ROP may advance to the point where scarring may occur which may disrupt the vision. . . . \n . . . . Depending on the gestational age of your baby and the findings at the time of the eye examination, follow-up visits may be required . . . . These follow-up examinations are routine and are necessary due to the fact that ROP may present at any time until the retina is mature. You will be contacted by your baby's pediatric ophthalmologist if any significant findings are detected which would in any way affect your baby's health or vision. In specific circumstances, your pediatric ophthalmologist may request another ophthalmologist consultant to also check your baby's eyes. Robert D. Gross, M.D., is the Pediatric Ophthalmologist who staffs our NICU. \n . . . . If you have any questions, please feel free to ask your nurse or your baby's doctor. \n The Burts contend that the "Dear Parent" letter, coupled with other evidence, shows that there was a continuing physician-patient relationship between Hunter and Dr. Gross and that Dr. Gross showed his consent to undertake further testing. Dr. Smith, Hunter's neonatologist, testified that, as the primary care physician while Hunter was in [*23]  the NICU, it was his duty to communicate the ROP results to Hunter's parents, and that once he had received Dr. Gross's findings, Dr. Gross's relationship with Hunter ended. Likewise, Dr. Miles Burke, the Burts' expert, admitted that the primary care physician should communicate the ROP results to parents. Also, he agreed that once the twins left the hospital, "the primary care physician carries the baton to be the leader." Dr. Burke's deposition testimony and his trial testimony were inconsistent on whether the appropriate standard of care required Dr. Gross to also directly communicate his findings to Hunter's parents. In his deposition testimony, Dr. Burke said he had no criticism of Dr. Gross for not meeting with the parents and communicating the results of his examination of Hunter. At trial, he testified it was Dr. Gross's responsibility "to make sure that the follow-up exams [were] carried out" and that he should have identified Hunter Burt as Hunter Taylor. He said he changed his opinion after seeing the "Dear Parent" letter. \n The evidence showed that the "Dear Parent" form letter was written by Fort Worth Neonatal Associates, P.A., Dr. Smith's practice group, as opposed [*24]  to Dr. Gross's group. The fact that Dr. Gross might have approved the form of the letter should not alone constitute a continuing relationship by someone other than the writer of the letter. "The duty to treat [a] patient . . . [properly] . . . flows from the consensual relationship between the patient and physician." St. John, 901 S.W.2d at 423. This duty cannot be created unilaterally by a third-party in favor of some unknown patient. The letter itself does not identify the patient or the parents to whom it is written, is on Fort Worth Neonatal Associates, P.A. letterhead, and is signed by that group, not by Dr. Gross. To impose a duty on a physician based upon a third-party's letter to an unidentified patient or parent would interfere with that physician's ability to decline to treat the unknown patient. See, e.g., id. The physician-patient relationship is "wholly voluntary." Fought v. Solce, 821 S.W.2d 218, 220 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1991, writ denied). And while consent may be implied, it cannot be based upon this type of form letter alone. \n Further, Alyssha testified that she had never even seen the "Dear Parent" letter. Thus,  [*25]  we cannot conclude that she or Keith relied on any part of the letter as implying a continuing relationship with Dr. Gross. We, therefore, hold that the "Dear Parent" letter did not impose a duty of continued care on Dr. Gross. \n  \n The Plan \n The Burts also point to Dr. Gross's contract with the Plan, of which they were members. That contract, which was introduced into evidence, states that Dr. Gross agrees to accept as patients all Plan members referred by a referring primary care physician participating in the Plan. Even if we assume the Plan constituted evidence of Dr. Gross's willingness or obligation to treat Hunter, Hunter's parents never actually took Hunter to see Dr. Gross. While Dr. Gross testified that he was willing to test and treat Hunter at his office, for that to occur Hunter must first have been taken to that office. This is true regardless of Dr. Gross's contract with the Plan. That agreement required the physician not to refuse treatment when and if requested by a member patient and referred by another plan member. No one ever took Hunter to Dr. Gross's office, so he never could have refused to treat Hunter.  \n We can compare these facts to those of Day v. Harkins & Munoz, 961 S.W.2d 278 [*26]  (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1997, no writ). 8  There, two doctors agreed to provide emergency and first aid care to patrons at an arena during a rock concert. Id. at 279. A patron, Day, suffered an asthma attack after the concert and later died. Id. Because the concert had ended, the doctors had already left and therefore never treated Day. Id. The court was faced with determining whether the doctors' contract with the arena gave rise to a duty to treat Day that would have supported his medical malpractice claim. Id. at 280. Because the agreement was only between the doctors and the arena, the court concluded there was no contract between Day, the patron, and the doctors. Id. at 281. The court held that, based on the doctors' affidavits, once the concert ended or the doctors left the premises, their duty to provide treatment had ended; therefore, there was no physician-patient relationship between Day and the doctors as a matter of law. Id. \n  [*27]  Similarly, Dr. Gross's examination of Hunter in the NICU was based upon his agreement with the Plan and his obligations to the hospital and the neonatologist physicians. When Dr. Smith ordered the ROP screening exam, Dr. Gross was required to undertake the exam and report the results back due to his contract with the patients' managed care plan. But, like the two arena doctors, once Dr. Gross completed and reported the test results to Dr. Smith, his relationship with Hunter ended. Thus, under this set of facts there can be no continued duty owed to Hunter based on the terms of the Plan. \n  \n Scheduled-But-Missed Appointments/Name Change \n The undisputed facts show that Alyssha knew Hunter and Tyler had appointments with Dr. Gross for something wrong with their eyes because she, in fact, made their appointments, before they were first discharged. The appointments were also reviewed and discussed in preparation for the twins' discharge, and she understood they would not even be discharged without the appointments. Likewise, Alyssha rescheduled their first missed appointments, but then failed to show up or call regarding the rescheduled appointments. She went by Dr. Yee's office [*28]  on February 18 to pick up a referral for the children's other surgical procedures planned for February 19, but did not even inquire about the referral to Dr. Gross that she had also requested the day before. Both she and Keith testified that they knew something was wrong with the twins' eyes, but did not know what it was or thought it was just from a cold. However, on cross-examination, Alyssha also testified that she knew they needed to be seen by a pediatric ophthalmologist. When asked "why," she said, "Because they were premature, and that's the only reason I understood. That's the only thing I understood, was premature infants had to go." \n Thus, after missing the first two appointments, the Burts never followed through with obtaining eye appointments with Dr. Gross and instead ultimately went to another pediatric ophthalmologist, Dr. Antinone. This is yet further evidence that neither Alyssha nor the children's subsequent pediatrician thought they were required to see only Dr. Gross or that they had a binding relationship with him that required him to track them down regarding their missed appointments. \n The dissent focuses on Dr. Gross's office's failure to call or write the [*29]  Burts regarding the patients' two missed appointments as is the office policy. Dissenting Op. at 10. As to the first appointment, the doctor's office did call; they called the Friday before the February 17 appointment as a reminder of the appointments and their need for a referral. Alyssha went to Dr. Yee's office the morning of February 17 to pick up the referral for the appointment with Dr. Gross that afternoon. However, Dr. Yee's office informed her that they were unable to obtain a referral on that short notice, so the appointment was rescheduled to February 28. Therefore, there was no need for Dr. Gross's office to call Alyssha regarding the February 17 appointment.  \n Regarding the February 28 appointment, the twins were "no shows"; their mother did not call the office to cancel beforehand or afterward to reschedule. The dissent says that Dr. Gross was negligent regarding this appointment because his office failed to follow-up by postcard or phone call as the office policy requires. However, the policy applies to existing patients. Hunter was a completely new patient under the new name, "Burt." Moreover, Alyssha did not tell the office of Hunter's name change or that Hunter [*30]  had been seen before. And although the initial ROP form disclosed Hunter's father's name as "Burt," there was no evidence showing that Hunter's files would be under that name instead of "Taylor." Since the office did not know Hunter was an existing patient, he did not get a reminder.  \n We can contrast these facts to those in Hand v. Tavera, 864 S.W.2d 678 (Tex. App.--San Antonio 1993, no writ). There, as here, the physician had an agreement with the patient's health care plan to provide medical care to the plan's patients. Id. at 679. This relationship, coupled with the patient's participation in the plan, was enough to impose a duty on the physician when the patient sought care. The court held: "When the health-care plan's insured shows up at a participating hospital emergency room, and the plan's doctor on call is consulted about treatment or admission, there is a physician-patient relationship between the doctor and the insured." Id. at 679 (emphasis added). The doctor's liability was based on his contract with the plan and the fact that the patient "showed up" at the emergency room. Id. Here, unfortunately for Hunter,  [*31]  he never showed up. \n Further complicating this issue, the evidence mentioned above showed that Alyssha made the appointments for the twins under their new last name, "Burt." Dr. Gross's computer printout of appointments shows the twins as "Burt-new patients" whereas the hospital's records of the NICU, and therefore Dr. Gross's office records, were under the name, "Taylor." Alyssha never advised Dr. Gross's office of the name change and never told them that Hunter, at least, had been seen at the NICU by Dr. Gross under a different name. While Dr. Burke opined that Dr. Gross should have connected the two names, he provided no basis for that conclusion. See TEX. R. EVID. 702; Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharms., Inc., 509 U.S. 579, 592-93, 113 S. Ct. 2786, 2796, 125 L. Ed. 2d 469 (1993); E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. v. Robinson, 923 S.W.2d 549, 556-57, 38 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 852 (Tex. 1995). \n The dissent concludes that all these factors, coupled with Hunter's initial screening ROP exam in the NICU show Dr. Gross's intent to provide Hunter's course of treatment, not just the initial exam. Dissenting Op. at 19-20. Further, the dissent believes Dr. Gross's failure to follow-up the [*32]  missed appointments coupled with the "Dear Parent" letter are enough to establish the continued relationship even if it might not have been enough to establish a new relationship. Dissenting Op. at 19-20. We believe, however, that none of these facts, either individually or combined, are evidence of the actual continuation of the physician-patient relationship. This is so, especially in light of the absence of evidence that anyone told Dr. Gross's office that the child's name had been changed, thereby leaving Hunter "Burt" classified as a new patient. Because the only evidence at trial is that Hunter's parents did not keep, but further rescheduled missed appointments, without at some point showing up for the appointments, there is no evidence indicating the patient's acceptance of continued care by Dr. Gross. \n  \n Conclusion on Dr. Gross \n While a previous physician-patient relationship is a factor to consider in determining whether the relationship and resulting duty continue, it is not alone enough to support the existence of the relationship. Likewise, Dr. Gross's contract with the Burts' managed care group that might have prevented him from declining the twins as patients at both [*33]  the hospital and his office is not enough to support the existence of a continuing relationship; the patient must at least "show up" to seek the medical care. "The mere act of . . . agreeing to see the patient at a later time [does] not establish the physician-patient relationship." Jackson v. Isaac, 76 S.W.3d 177, 182 (Tex. App.--Eastland 2002, pet. denied) (citing Irvin v. Smith, 272 Kan. 112, 31 P.3d 934, 941 (Kan. 2001)). This should be especially so when an intervening identification issue has arisen, as in this case. \n If we were to expand the duty of continued care to all patients who are seen at hospitals by consulting physicians beyond the hospital setting based solely upon the fact that they were seen by the physician in the hospital, there would be no end to the physician-patient relationship. Thus, all specialists or on-call physicians could be bound to an endless duty of continued care even if they had completed their assigned duty at the hospital and the patient failed to follow through. This is not to say that the ophthalmologist on staff or on call at a hospital does not owe a duty to correctly diagnose and/or treat a patient while [*34]  at the hospital, but only that it is not enough to create a continuing duty. Where, as here, the specialist is requested to perform an initial screening and report the findings back to the NICU physician, who continues the control over the patient's care, we cannot impose a post-hospital never-ending duty. For these reasons, we hold, under the facts, that the examination of a patient at a hospital by a consulting or referred specialist physician does not create a continuing duty upon that physician to insure follow-up is maintained once the physician has supplied the primary or referring physician with the results unless the patient and the consulting or referred specialist physician take some further affirmative action to continue the relationship. While additional or different facts could arise that would change the result, we likewise hold that scheduled-but-missed appointments are insufficient to continue or create a duty, even when combined with third-party letters such as the "Dear Parent" letter. The "Dear Parent" letter, along with Dr. Burke's opinion that it created a duty on Dr. Gross's part to insure follow-up visits, is less than a scintilla of evidence to uphold the jury's [*35]  verdict on a vital fact--a continued physician-patient relationship. Without a physician-patient relationship, there can be no duty. See St. John, 901 S.W.2d at 423. Therefore, we sustain Dr. Gross's first issue. 9  \n  \n Issues Presented Relative to All Saints and Dr. Perdue \n In five issues, All Saints and Dr. Perdue contend that (a) the trial court erroneously calculated and awarded damages in the final judgment, (b) the Burts are not entitled to compensation for mental anguish damages, (c) the trial court abused its discretion in admitting the expert testimony of Dr. Miles Burke as to causation, (d) the trial court abused its discretion in excluding evidence of nystagmus unrelated to ROP, and (e) the evidence is legally and factually insufficient to support the jury's findings on causation and damages. Because the fifth issue is dispositive,  [*36]  we address it first. See TEX. R. APP. P. 47.1. \n  \n Facts Relative to Dr. Perdue \n Dr. Perdue, a board-certified pediatrician, had been working for All Saints since 1996 when she treated the twins. She did not treat infants weighing less than 1500 grams, but she did treat premature infants once they had been released from a NICU. Dr. Perdue testified that ROP is an inflammatory process in the vessels or retinas of premature babies, but denied that she knew how the disease progresses. \n She first saw the twins on March 20, 1997, but did not create a referral to Dr. Gross for both twins until May 8, 1997. Dr. Perdue's office faxed a request to Dr. Yee for his records on the twins on March 27, 1997. Dr. Perdue testified that the prematurity of the twins was significant, as well as the fact that they had been in the NICU and had been rehospitalized in February and March 1997 for apnea and gastroesophageal reflux. She knew the original discharge summary for one child indicated a diagnosis of ROP and that an ophthalmology appointment had been scheduled for both twins with Dr. Gross upon their original discharge. The discharge summary from the Harris NICU showed a stage 1 ROP diagnosis [*37]  for Hunter. Dr. Perdue never talked to Dr. Yee or Dr. Gross about the children's diagnosis or treatment. Dr. Perdue's notes from her first exam of Hunter and Tyler noted, "Need eye exam post-NICU, Doctor Gross."  \n The twins' second visit with Dr. Perdue was on March 31, 1997. At both visits she knew they were supposed to see Dr. Gross as a result of his examination in the NICU, yet testified that at the time of the first two appointments she did not know why they needed to see a pediatric ophthalmologist. She did not fill out a specialty referral for either twin at either of the first two appointments, despite Alyssha telling her they both needed eye exams and the fact that the discharge summaries showed they did also. Dr. Yee's records showed that he had previously done the referral necessary for their appointments with Dr. Gross, which was ready on February 19. Dr. Yee mailed his records, including the discharge summaries, on March 27, 1997, and Dr. Perdue testified that if she had those records before their March 31 checkup, she would have reviewed them. On March 31 the twins' gestational age would have been about forty-three weeks. \n The twins next went to Dr. Perdue's office [*38]  on April 22, 1997. She performed another external eye exam on each twin, as she had done on the two prior visits, and noted that the exams were again "normal." 10  Dr. Perdue's notes on each chart state that the twins needed a subspecialty follow-up and referral to Dr. Gross. However, Dr. Perdue did not initiate a referral from her office in April either, even though by then she knew they needed the referral as early as March. \n The twins' next visit to Dr. Perdue took place on May 5. After performing another external eye exam, she made another notation of "normal." Sometime on May 8, Dr. Perdue prepared a referral to Dr. Gross, but there is nothing in her records to show that her office communicated this to the parents. The referrals showed a tentative diagnosis by Dr. Perdue of ROP. \n The twins' next visit was on June 9 when Dr. Perdue determined that Hunter's external eye exam was abnormal. On that day's entries [*39]  she noted, "Subspecialty follow up on ophthalmology was planned." Dr. Perdue had no explanation as to why the referral had not been done in March, April, or May. Because Dr. Gross's schedule was so full in June, Dr. Perdue called another pediatric ophthalmologist, Dr. Antinone, who saw the twins on June 16, 1997. He reported that Tyler had grade 3 scarring or retinopathy of both eyes, and Hunter had grade 4 scarring in his left eye with some retinal detachment. They were both legally blind. \n  \n Discussion of All Saints and Dr. Perdue's Fifth Issue \n In their fifth issue, All Saints and Dr. Perdue contend that the evidence is legally and factually insufficient to support the jury's findings that Dr. Perdue's negligence proximately caused the children's injuries. 11  They contend that the testimony of Dr. Burke, the Burts' pediatric ophthalmology expert, with respect to causation is unreliable and, therefore, insufficient to sustain the jury's verdict that Dr. Perdue's negligence proximately caused the twins' injuries. \n  \n  [*40] Causation \n All Saints and Dr. Perdue first contend that the evidence is legally and factually insufficient to show that Dr. Perdue's negligence deprived the twins of more than a fifty percent chance of a different outcome. They claim that by the time Dr. Perdue first saw the twins, there was less than a fifty percent chance that treatment would have saved their eyesight. \n "The ultimate standard of proof on the causation issue is 'whether, by a preponderance of the evidence, the negligent act or omission is shown to be a substantial factor in bringing about the [injury] and without which the harm would not have occurred.'" Marvelli v. Alston, 100 S.W.3d 460, 469 (Tex. App.--Fort Worth 2003, pet. denied) (quoting Park Place Hosp. v. Estate of Milo, 909 S.W.2d 508, 511, 39 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 70 (Tex. 1995)). This standard effectively bars recovery when the defendant's negligence deprives the plaintiff of only a fifty percent or less chance of avoiding the complained-of harm. Kramer v. Lewisville Mem'l Hosp., 858 S.W.2d 397, 400, 36 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 1142 (Tex. 1992). Thus, if at the time of the alleged negligence, the patient has a pre-existing condition from which the chance of [*41]  recovery is fifty percent or less, recovery will be barred. Id. \n The evidence at trial showed that treatment for ROP is not necessary until the disease reaches "threshold," which is determined by performing a specialized examination of the eyes. Treatment before threshold is generally not effective; however, treatment must usually occur within seventy-two hours of threshold to improve the ultimate outcome. All of the pediatric ophthalmology experts testified that they could not determine when Hunter's and Tyler's eyes reached threshold because no one had performed an examination until long after threshold had occurred. Dr. Burke, a pediatric ophthalmologist, testified that the twins reached threshold. Dr. Sandra Brown, also a pediatric ophthalmologist, agreed that both of the twins' eyes reached threshold. Dr. Gross testified that he could not say whether they ever reached threshold. \n When Dr. Perdue first saw the twins on March 20, 1997, they were around forty-one and a half weeks' postconceptional age. At that visit, Alyssha told Dr. Perdue that the twins had missed appointments with Dr. Gross; however, Dr. Perdue testified that Alyssha also told her the twins had had no eye [*42]  problems while in the NICU. \n  \n Dr. Burke \n Dr. Burke was the Burts' pediatric ophthalmology expert and testified that Dr. Perdue's negligence was the proximate cause of the twins' injuries. Dr. Burke has been a practicing pediatric ophthalmologist since 1979. From 1979 to 1998, he was Director of the Department of Pediatric Ophthalmology at Children's Hospital Medical Center in Cincinnati, Ohio. He was in private practice at the time of trial. Dr. Burke was one of the principal investigators for the CRYO-ROP study, which is the leading study of ROP in premature infants. He was also an examiner and certifying ophthalmologist in another study known as STOP-ROP. Dr. Burke estimated that he had examined over twenty thousand premature infants' eyes for ROP. \n Dr. Burke testified that, had Dr. Perdue arranged for an emergency referral to a pediatric ophthalmologist when she saw the twins in late March and had the twins received appropriate treatment, they would have had nearly normal vision. He based this opinion on his personal experience with patients and his involvement in the CRYO-ROP study. 12  However, Dr. Burke also testified that the twins reached threshold between thirty-seven [*43]  and forty-eight weeks postconception. On cross-examination, Dr. Burke testified that for babies between 1000 to 1250 grams at birth, "the median for that birth weight [of threshold] was 37.3 weeks, and the standard deviation ranged between 33.7 weeks to 42.9 weeks." Then, \n if one uses the usual range for development and identification of threshold disease, an examiner should have been able to identify threshold ROP between January 26th and March 31st, 1997. This suggests that had these infants been examined any time later than early April, the chance of treatment preserving vision would already be very small. \n Also on cross-examination, Dr. Burke testified that, based on the article "Incidence and Early Course of Retinopathy of Prematurity," which Dr. Burke referred to as the "bible" for the study of ROP, the majority of infants studied had reached threshold by forty-one and a half weeks postconceptional age, and at forty-two weeks, ninety-five percent had reached threshold. He agreed that there was a ninety-five percent probability based on the CRYO-ROP data that Hunter and Tyler had reached threshold before their first visit with Dr. Perdue. Dr. Burke also agreed that some [*44]  higher birth weight babies, like Hunter and Tyler, reach threshold earlier and that he could not say exactly when the twins reached threshold because no examinations were done until after they had reached it. \n Dr. Burke testified that he did not believe the twins were suffering from severe ROP when they first saw Dr. Perdue, but he agreed that based on the CRYO-ROP data, the odds are ninety-five percent or better that the twins passed threshold before seeing her. On further cross-examination, Dr. Burke stated that in trying to determine when the twins had developed ROP, he had "placed a range in terms of when [he] thought" it occurred, based on statistics. He admitted that he could not say for sure when the children reached threshold and that because it could not be determined, it could [*45]  only be based on "qualified previous information." When cross-examined on his notes for the case, Dr. Burke noted that he used the natural history statistics from the CRYO-ROP study to determine the percentage of risk that the Burt twins had of developing ROP. \n Dr. Burke admitted that at the time of trial the recommended standard 13  was that at least one eye should be treated within seventy-two hours of a diagnosis of threshold, saying that "we think it's the prudent [standard]." However, Dr. Burke stated that there is no way of determining from the study if treatment occurring more than seventy-two hours after a doctor first notes threshold in an examination would be effective. He agreed that seventy-two hours is the accepted standard of care. But Dr. Burke also testified that it has not been proven whether treatment more than seventy-two hours after threshold is observed is efficacious. He stated that he had treated some patients ninety-six hours after observing threshold, and they had done as well as the patients treated within seventy-two hours. Dr. Burke agreed, though, that in attempting to prevent blindness, therapy must be done within forty-eight to seventy-two hours; however,  [*46]  he indicated that he could not tell when the seventy-two hour window occurred in the twins' eyes. He further agreed that treatment does not cure ROP, but may modify the course of the disease. \n Reading from the article "Prognostic Factors in the Natural Course of Retinopathy of Prematurity," which Dr. Burke agreed was peer-reviewed and reliable, Dr. Burke noted that "overall, the eyes resulting in an unfavorable macular outcome went from the onset of ROP to threshold in only about 17 days, which was about nine days faster than the eyes that fared well." He agreed that the article determined that, on average, bad macular outcome in infants with ROP progressed [*47]  very rapidly, within seventeen days from the onset of ROP. \n Dr. Burke testified that appropriate treatment for threshold is "very often . . . highly successful" for babies of similar age and weight as Hunter and Tyler and that "almost every single patient [he had] followed that has been treated for threshold has very good vision." On cross-examination, however, Dr. Burke admitted that approximately forty-seven percent of the children in the CRYO-ROP study who were treated for threshold disease became blind. \n  \n Dr. Gross \n Dr. Gross testified that the vast majority of infants who reach threshold do so by forty-two weeks and that forty-two weeks was too late for Hunter to have been screened for the first time after he was discharged from the NICU. He explained that, based on the CRYO-ROP study, threshold means the point at which treatment helps and that, statistically, treatment before threshold hurts rather than helps. Treatment should be administered at threshold to be effective; the CRYO-ROP study suggests treatment should occur no later than seventy-two hours after threshold. Dr. Gross testified that, with treatment, a majority of patients had a successful outcome and defined [*48]  a success story as better outcome, not necessarily perfect vision. Dr. Gross said that there is no cure for ROP. \n  \n Dr. Lonn Lockhart \n Portions of the video deposition of Dr. Lonn Lockhart, one of Dr. Perdue's pediatric ophthalmology experts, were introduced into evidence. Dr. Lockhart testified that the examination process for ROP is specialized and is normally done by a pediatric ophthalmologist or retinal specialist. On cross-examination, he admitted that a small percentage of infants develop ROP after forty-two weeks and that those children are in the same birthweight group as the twins. Dr. Lockhart believed that if the twins had been treated timely, they would have had a greater than fifty percent chance that treatment of each of their eyes would have been successful. \n When questioned about his opinion on whether the twins' eyes worsened between March 20, 1997 and June 19, 1997, Dr. Lockhart opined that "early, very early in that period of time, they probably reached Grade 3 or cicatricial Stage III early in that period of time" and that "it's probable that their Stage III worsened some in between 3/20 and whatever date thereafter." Dr. Lockhart admitted he did not know [*49]  when the twins reached threshold, so his opinion was based on experience and, in large part, on statistics from reviewed literature. He could not say whether the twins were in the ninety-five percent or the five percent group, and the only way to opine about when they reached threshold was by using the available statistics. \n Dr. Lockhart was of the opinion that "more likely than not [the twins] could not have been successfully treated at 43 weeks, based upon [his] experience and training." He testified that most children with threshold ROP are successfully treated between thirty-six to thirty-eight weeks; he did not believe that intervention between March 20 and June 19, 1997 would have had a "significant effect on [the twins'] outcome." \n  \n Dr. Sandra Brown \n Dr. Brown, 14  another pediatric ophthalmology expert designated by Dr. Perdue, testified that she could not say when the twins reached threshold, but could only make a prediction based on epidemiologic studies. According to Dr. Brown, the optimum time for detection and treatment of threshold ROP in the twins was several weeks before their first visit with Dr. Perdue. Dr. Brown stated that, in her opinion, \n there [*50]  is a greater than 51 [percent] probability that [the] children were past threshold by the time they arrived in [Dr. Perdue's] office for [their] first visit. And that even if she had arranged for immediate referral for them, that the likelihood that there would have been a significantly improved functional outcome for either eye of either child is very small. \n Dr. Brown testified that at four months chronologic age, the twins' chance of being in an "active stage of [ROP] was vanishingly small." She explained that no information exists showing that treatment is effective beyond seventy-two hours after threshold because no one that treats premature infants for ROP is willing to wait longer to treat threshold ROP. In fact, Dr. Brown testified that treatment was usually scheduled either the same night or the next day after an examination where threshold [*51]  was first observed and that doctors try to treat threshold quickly. \n According to Dr. Brown, "unless you assume that [the twins] crossed threshold . . . two days before they saw Doctor Perdue, there is a reasonable medical probability that they were in a very severe stage of disease by the time they reached her office." Dr. Brown was unable to say when a particular child would reach threshold; she could only make a prediction based on statistics. Dr. Brown testified that the median occurrence of threshold is at 36.9 weeks, which means that half of the children will have reached threshold by then and half will not. Fewer than five percent will reach threshold after forty-two weeks post-conception, but there is no way of knowing which child will be in that five percent. \n Dr. Brown stated that the basis for her opinion that the twins probably would not have had a better outcome if Dr. Perdue had timely arranged for referral was "The Natural History of Retinopathy of Prematurity" and "The CRYO-ROP Treatment Trial" both of which Dr. Burke relied on for his opinion. She further relied on Table 5 of the article, "Incidence and Early Course of Retinopathy of Prematurity." Based on these [*52]  publications, Dr. Brown opined that "much more likely than not, . . . both eyes of both children had reached threshold and could potentially have been in threshold for a significant period of time prior to their first visit with Doctor Perdue, which was at about 41.5 to 42 weeks of post-conception age." \n Dr. Brown explained that outcomes could only be predicted based on statistical models because, without results from a specialized examination of the children, there is no way of knowing when the children reached threshold. However, the studies "allow[] us to predict the most likely course of [the twins' ROP] in the absence of other information." According to Dr. Brown, it was more likely than not that the twins were at threshold a week before they saw Dr. Perdue, and "it is more likely that they had been at threshold for some period of time."  \n Dr. Brown testified that only one article had been written about the effect of a delay in treatment. In that study, the doctor treated seven children with "late Stage III plus disease" outside the seventy-two-hour window, and all seven had unfavorable outcomes. Dr. Brown stated that it was more likely than not that the twins reached threshold [*53]  at thirty-seven weeks. \n On cross-examination, Dr. Brown admitted that she could not say whether treatment within two days of threshold was any better than treatment within ten days of threshold. She agreed that, had Dr. Perdue referred the twins to a pediatric ophthalmologist after she received their medical records in late March 1997, then we would know whether the twins had reached threshold by then. Dr. Brown also testified on cross-examination that "if they had passed threshold one day before seeing [Dr. Perdue], then they have the same likelihood of an improved outcome as any other child who had been screened all along and observed to approach and then crossed threshold." \n  \n Reliability of Dr. Burke's Testimony on Causation \n While Dr. Perdue's experts agreed with Dr. Burke that the twins' eyes reached threshold, they disagreed on when that threshold could effectively be treated. Drs. Burke, Lockhart, and Brown all agreed that it was impossible to determine when the twins reached threshold and that they could only say that, based on available statistics, the twins more likely than not reached threshold before their first visit with Dr. Perdue. However, only Dr. Burke opined [*54]  that, even considering that the twins probably already reached threshold by March 20, 1997, they still had a better than fifty percent chance of improvement if Dr. Perdue had immediately referred them for treatment. All Saints and Dr. Perdue contend that this opinion of Dr. Burke's is unreliable; thus, the evidence is legally and factually insufficient to prove that Dr. Perdue's negligence proximately caused the twins' injuries. 15  \n  [*55]  Expert testimony must be relevant to the issues in a case and be based on a reliable foundation. TEX. R. EVID. 702; Robinson, 923 S.W.2d at 553; Marvelli, 100 S.W.3d at 475. The trial court must make an initial determination of whether the expert's testimony is relevant and reliable so as to be admissible. Robinson, 923 S.W.2d at 557; Marvelli, 100 S.W.3d at 475. However, even when challenged expert testimony is admitted by the trial court, a party may later complain on appeal that the expert testimony is legally insufficient to support the judgment because it is unreliable. Mar. Overseas Corp., 971 S.W.2d at 409; Austin v. Kerr-McGee Refining Corp., 25 S.W.3d 280, 285 (Tex. App.--Texarkana 2000, no pet.). Unreliable expert testimony is not evidence. Merrell Dow Pharms., Inc. v. Havner, 953 S.W.2d 706, 714, 40 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 846 (Tex. 1997), cert. denied, 523 U.S. 1119, 140 L. Ed. 2d 939, 118 S. Ct. 1799 (1998); Marvelli, 100 S.W.3d at 475. \n In determining whether expert testimony is reliable and, therefore, some evidence supporting the judgment, the appellate court must [*56]  employ "an almost de novo-like review and, like the trial court, look beyond the expert's bare testimony to determine the reliability of the theory underlying it." Austin, 25 S.W.3d at 285; see Guadalupe-Blanco River Auth. v. Kraft, 77 S.W.3d 805, 808, 45 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 628 (Tex. 2002); Havner, 953 S.W.2d at 713. "An expert's simple ipse dixit 16  is insufficient to establish a matter; rather, the expert must explain the basis of his statements to link his conclusions to the facts." Earle v. Ratliff, 998 S.W.2d 882, 890, 42 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 919 (Tex. 1999) (footnote added). The court does not focus on the correctness of the expert's opinion, but on the reliability of the analysis the expert used in reaching his or her conclusions. State Farm Fire & Cas. Co. v. Rodriguez, 88 S.W.3d 313, 319 (Tex. App.--San Antonio 2002, pet. denied) (op. on reh'g). \n  [*57]  The supreme court has articulated six nonexclusive factors appellate courts should consider in determining whether scientific testimony is reliable: \n (1) the extent to which the theory has been or can be tested; (2) the extent to which the technique relies upon the subjective interpretation of the expert; (3) whether the theory has been subjected to peer review and publication; (4) the technique's potential rate of error; (5) whether the underlying theory or technique has been generally accepted as valid by the relevant scientific community; and (6) the non-judicial uses that have been made of the theory or technique. \n  \n Havner, 953 S.W.2d at 714; Robinson, 923 S.W.2d at 557. Scientific evidence that is not based on "the methods and procedures of science" is no more than a "subjective belief or unsupported speculation." Robinson, 923 S.W.2d at 557. "If the foundational data underlying opinion testimony are unreliable, an expert will not be permitted to base an opinion on that data because any opinion drawn from that data is likewise unreliable." Havner, 953 S.W.2d at 714. In addition, if the expert's conclusions [*58]  from data are based upon flawed methodology, the testimony is unreliable even if the data is sound. Id. \n The Texas Supreme Court has recognized that the Robinson analysis may not apply to certain types of expert testimony. Helena Chem. Co. v. Wilkins, 47 S.W.3d 486, 499, 44 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 675 (Tex. 2001) (citing Gammill v. Jack Williams Chevrolet, Inc., 972 S.W.2d 713, 726, 41 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 1117 (Tex. 1998)). In these types of cases, there must still be a reliable basis for the expert's opinion. Id. "Experience alone may provide a sufficient basis for an expert's testimony" unless there is "too great an analytical gap between the data and the opinion proffered." Gammill, 972 S.W.2d at 726-27. Thus, regardless of whether the Robinson factors are applied, the proponent of the expert testimony must prove that it is based upon a reliable foundation. Rodriguez, 88 S.W.3d at 319.  \n All Saints and Dr. Perdue contend that Dr. Burke's opinion that the twins could have been successfully treated even if, statistically, they were already seventy-two hours past threshold when Dr. Perdue first saw them, is unreliable and, therefore, no evidence that Dr. Perdue [*59]  proximately caused the twins' injuries. As was the case in Havner, the issue before us is not whether Dr. Burke possesses adequate credentials, skill, or experience to testify about the cause of the twins' injuries. See Havner, 953 S.W.2d at 711. All Saints and Dr. Perdue do not challenge Dr. Burke's qualifications. He had been involved in two major studies of ROP, had co-authored between twenty-five and thirty articles on the subject, and had significant firsthand experience in treating infants with the disease. Rather, the issue is whether Dr. Burke's opinion in this particular case is based on a reliable foundation. \n Dr. Burke admitted that there were no studies supporting his theory that threshold disease could be treated effectively outside the seventy-two hour window recommended by the CRYO-ROP study and other studies because no physician would knowingly withhold treatment upon an observation of threshold ROP. See Couch v. Simmons, 108 S.W.3d 338, 341-43 (Tex. App.--Amarillo 2003, no pet.) (holding evidence supported trial court's finding that expert's testimony--that earlier administration of IV fluids would have prevented patient's stroke--was [*60]  unreliable and inadmissible because expert's own affidavit stated that theory had not been tested because no physician would intentionally withhold IV fluids to test theory and two peer-reviewed articles expert relied on indicated that there is no "specific beneficial relationship" between administration of IV fluids and stroke outcome); Helm v. Swan, 61 S.W.3d 493, 498 (Tex. App.--San Antonio 2001, pet. denied) (holding unreliable expert testimony that earlier intravenous fluid therapy would have improved patient's chances of recovery from severe necrotizing pancreatitis because no medical literature supported the opinion and noting that such support was absent because "no medical professional would intentionally delay" the therapy). Additionally, in the only study cited by any of the pediatric ophthalmology experts where treatment did not occur within seventy-two hours of threshold, none of the patients achieved a positive outcome. Furthermore, Dr. Burke's testimony regarding his own personal experience supports only the conclusion that treatment within ninety-six hours after observing threshold has been effective in his patients. Cf. In re D.S., 19 S.W.3d 525, 529-30 [*61]  (Tex. App.--Fort Worth 2000, no pet.) (holding that expert's testimony, based on experience alone, that a child had been forcibly immersed in hot water was reliable when expert's theory was not subject to human testing because it would be immoral, expert had over twenty-five years' experience treating child and adult burn victims, and expert explained how burn patterns correlated to a person's typical response to contact with hot liquids). Thus, the record before us shows no basis for Dr. Burke's opinion other than his belief that treatment beyond ninety-six hours after threshold would have been effective. See Exxon Corp. v. Makofski, 116 S.W.3d 176, 188-89 (Tex. App.--Houston [14th Dist.] 2003, pet. filed) (holding--after concluding that studies cited by some of the Burts' experts did not support their opinions and that one of appellee's expert's opinions had no basis--that expert's "belief that a substance might cause a disease is no evidence that in reasonable probability it did"). \n Had Dr. Burke been able to testify to any personal knowledge or experience or any scientific data supporting his theory that treatment more than ninety-six hours after threshold would [*62]  have resulted in a better outcome for the twins' eyes, the outcome of our analysis would likely be different. However, based on the evidence before us, there is no reliable foundation for Dr. Burke's testimony that the twins' eyesight would have been improved if Dr. Perdue had referred them for treatment when she first saw them. Thus, the only conclusion supported by reliable evidence is that the twins had more likely than not reached threshold and passed the seventy-two-hour window for treatment (and even the ninety-six-hour window that Dr. Burke testified he had personally observed) before being seen by Dr. Perdue. Because the only reliable evidence shows that there was a fifty percent or greater chance that the twins could not have been successfully treated by the time Dr. Perdue took over their care, any acts or omissions of Dr. Perdue could not have been a substantial factor in causing the twins' injuries; therefore, the Burts cannot recover for any negligence of Dr. Perdue. See Kramer, 858 S.W.2d at 400. \n We hold that, under either the six Robinson factors or the Gammill analytical gap test, Dr. Burke's testimony that Dr. Perdue's negligence proximately [*63]  caused the twins' injuries is unreliable, 17  and, therefore, constitutes no evidence that Dr. Perdue's negligence was a proximate cause of the twins' injuries. See Havner, 953 S.W.2d at 730. Because there is no scientifically reliable evidence to support the jury's verdict that Dr. Perdue's acts or omissions were a proximate cause of the twins' injuries, we sustain All Saints and Dr. Perdue's fifth issue. 18  \n  \n Modification of Interest Rates to Judgment \n In a post-submission brief, appellants have asserted that recent changes to the Texas Finance Code should apply [*64]  to the pre- and post-judgment rates used by the trial court in computing its judgment. TEX. FIN. CODE ANN. § 304.003(c) (Vernon Supp. 2004). Because we are rendering judgment in favor of these appellants, the question of whether the new rates of interest apply is mooted and we do not need to address it here. See generally Williams v. Lara, 52 S.W.3d 171, 184, 44 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 998 (Tex. 2001); Valley Baptist Med. Ctr. v. Gonzalez, 33 S.W.3d 821, 822, 44 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 41 (Tex. 2000); but see Columbia Med. Ctr. v. Bush, 122 S.W.3d 835, 866 (Tex. App.--Fort Worth 2003, pet. filed) (holding new interest rates do not apply to cases pending on appeal on statute's effective date). \n  \n Conclusion \n Having sustained Dr. Gross's first and fifth issues, we reverse the trial court's judgment against him and render judgment in his favor. Likewise, having sustained All Saints and Dr. Perdue's fifth issue as to causation, we reverse the trial court's judgment against them and render judgment in their favor. \n TERRIE LIVINGSTON \n JUSTICE  \n Dissent by: SUE WALKER \n Dissent \n  \n  \n  \n DISSENTING OPINION \n  \n I. INTRODUCTION \n I respectfully dissent from the majority's disposition of [*65]  Dr. Gross's appeal. The evidence does not conclusively establish termination of the physician-patient relationship between Dr. Gross and Hunter, and viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the jury's verdict and disregarding all contrary evidence and inferences, the evidence is legally sufficient to support the deemed finding that at the time in question Hunter Burt was Dr. Gross's patient with respect to Hunter's retinopathy of prematurity (ROP). Consequently, I would decline to reverse the trial court's judgment against Dr. Gross on the grounds articulated by the majority and would, instead, address Dr. Gross's remaining issues. \n  \n II. PHYSICIAN-PATIENT RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN DR. GROSS AND HUNTER \n Dr. Gross does not dispute that he had a physician-patient relationship with Hunter when he examined Hunter for ROP in the hospital. He stated below in the trial court that "we are not taking the position that there was no relationship for the examination in the hospital." Instead, Dr. Gross claims in his first issue that "with respect to the jury's finding that Dr. Gross'[s] negligence caused any harm to Hunter Burt . . . Dr. Gross'[s] limited physician-patient relationship [*66]  with Twin B, a/k/a Hunter 'Taylor,' terminated upon completion of the ROP screen." [Emphasis added.] \n Termination of an existing physician-patient relationship is an affirmative defense or a matter in avoidance which the physician bears the burden of pleading and proving. Accord Tex. Beef Cattle Co. v. Green, 921 S.W.2d 203, 212, 39 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 523 (Tex. 1996) (jury's finding of affirmative defense of justification rendered immaterial finding of actual malice); Sunsinger v. Perez, 16 S.W.3d 496, 500 (Tex. App.--Beaumont 2000, pet. denied) (discussing defendant doctor's motion for summary judgment on ground of affirmative defense that patient had terminated physician-patient relationship). Although Dr. Gross contended at trial and asserts on appeal that his physician-patient relationship with Hunter with respect to Hunter's ROP terminated following the in-hospital screening, he did not request a termination special question or instruction or object to the lack of such a question or instruction. Consequently, no such question or instruction was submitted. 1  If a party totally fails to request that a particular defense be included in the court's charge, it is waived [*67]  unless it is conclusively established as a matter of law. See TEX. R. CIV. P. 279 (providing that upon appeal all independent grounds of recovery or defense not conclusively established under the evidence and upon which no issue is given or requested shall be deemed as waived); see also Gulf State Utils. Co. v. Low, 79 S.W.3d 561, 565, 45 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 724, 45 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 793 (Tex. 2002) (recognizing that a party waives an entire theory of defense by not objecting to its omission from the charge); Vickery v. Comm. for Lawyer Discipline, 5 S.W.3d 241, 253 (Tex. App.--Houston [14th Dist.] 1999, pet. denied) (same). \n  [*68]  Therefore, the issue presented by Dr. Gross's complaint that "with respect to the jury's finding that Dr. Gross'[s] negligence caused any harm to Hunter Burt . . . Dr. Gross'[s] limited physician-patient relationship with Twin B, a/k/a Hunter 'Taylor,' terminated upon completion of the ROP screen" was waived, unless termination of the physician-patient relationship between Dr. Gross and Hunter was established as a matter of law. See Gulf States Utils., 79 S.W.3d at 565; see also Woods v. William M. Mercer, Inc., 769 S.W.2d 515, 518, 32 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 99 (Tex. 1988) (holding discovery rule was independent ground of defense under rule 279 and that failure to request findings or object to charge not submitting discovery rule waived right to complain on appeal). \n During the charge conference in this case, a lengthy debate occurred concerning whether to submit Appellees' requested jury special question on the existence of a physician-patient relationship between Dr. Gross and Hunter. See 3 COMM. ON PATTERN JURY CHARGES, STATE BAR OF TEX., TEXAS PATTERN JURY CHARGES PJC 50.6 (2d. ed. 2002) (setting forth a physician-patient relationship special question). Ultimately,  [*69]  counsel for Dr. Gross and for Hunter agreed that the trial court had found as a matter of law that a physician-patient relationship existed between Dr. Gross and Hunter, at least at the time of Dr. Gross's in-hospital examination of Hunter. Dr. Gross did not object to the omission of a physician-patient relationship special question from the charge. Consequently, to the extent Dr. Gross's first issue constitutes a challenge to the legal sufficiency of the evidence to establish a post-hospital-examination physician-patient relationship between Dr. Gross and Hunter, that finding is deemed in support of the judgment. See TEX. R. CIV. P. 279; In re J.F.C., 96 S.W.3d 256, 262-63, 46 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 328 (Tex. 2002). \n Under this analysis, the issue presented by Dr. Gross's "no evidence" complaint that "with respect to the jury's finding that Dr. Gross'[s] negligence caused any harm to Hunter Burt . . . Dr. Gross'[s] limited physician-patient relationship with Twin B, a/k/a Hunter 'Taylor,' terminated upon completion of the ROP screen" is whether legally sufficient evidence exists supporting the deemed finding of a physician-patient relationship between Dr. Gross and Hunter with respect [*70]  to Hunter's ROP. In conducting this legal sufficiency analysis, we are required to view the evidence in the light most favorable to the jury's verdict and to disregard all evidence and inferences to the contrary. See, e.g., St. Joseph Hosp. v. Wolff, 94 S.W.3d 513, 519, 46 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 142 (Tex. 2002). Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the jury's verdict, disregarding all evidence and inferences to the contrary, more than a scintilla of evidence exists of a physician-patient relationship between Dr. Gross and Hunter with respect to Hunter's ROP following the in-hospital examination. \n  \n A. Legally Sufficient Evidence Supports Deemed Finding of Physician-Patient Relationship \n The parties agree that Dr. Gross had a physician-patient relationship with Hunter with respect to Hunter's ROP when he examined and diagnosed Hunter in the hospital on February 8, 1997. In 1996, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Association for Pediatric Opthamology and Strabismus, and the American Academy of Opthamology approved guidelines concerning screening premature infants for ROP. The guidelines state that infants with a birth weight of under 1500 grams or with a gestational [*71]  age of 28 weeks or less should have a dilated indirect ophthalmoscopic examination to detect ROP. The examination should be carried out by an opthamologist with experience in the examination of preterm infants. This is the examination Dr. Gross conducted on Hunter to diagnose Hunter with ROP. \n The American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Association for Pediatric Opthamology and Strabismus, and the American Academy of Opthamology also approved guidelines which state that infants with ROP, like Hunter, "should be seen at least every 1 to 2 weeks until normal vascularization proceeds to Zone III or the risk of attaining threshold conditions is passed." According to Dr. Gross, these guidelines constitute the standard of care for a pediatric opthamologist treating an infant with ROP. 2  Likewise, Dr. Burke, the Burt's expert, testified at trial that it was Dr. Gross's responsibility "to make sure that the follow-up examinations be carried out" and that Dr. Gross should have identified Hunter Burt as Hunter Taylor. \n  [*72]  Dr. Yee testified that Dr. Kim Smith called him on February 12, 1997, and told him that the twins had a February 17, 1997 follow-up appointment with Dr. Gross because Hunter had been diagnosed by Dr. Gross as having ROP. Nonetheless, although he had six days, Dr. Yee did not complete Hunter's referral papers to Dr. Gross's office prior to the scheduled visit. Dr. Yee completed the referral papers on February 19, 1997, too late for Hunter to make the February 17 appointment with Dr. Gross. \n Alyssha Burt testified that she learned on the evening of February 8 that Dr. Gross had examined Hunter's eyes in the hospital that day. The nurse told Alyssha that the exam was "great," "a one, the best." While the twins were still in the hospital, a nurse told Alyssha to call Dr. Gross and set up an appointment for the boys to have their eyes examined. She did, and the appointment was set for February 17. When she made the appointment, Dr. Gross's office did not mention the need for a referral. Alyssha had no idea why the Hunter needed to have his eyes examined other than simply because he was premature. Her only understanding was that "premature infants had to go" for opthalmic exams. \n Dr. Gross's [*73]  office called Alyssha on Friday, February 14, before the scheduled Monday February 17 appointment, and told her that the office did not have the referral papers necessary for the appointment. The morning of the February 17, Alyssha talked with Dr. Yee's office and learned that the referral could not be completed in time for Hunter's eye appointment that afternoon. Alyssha called Dr. Gross's office and relayed this information; she was told to reschedule the appointment. She rescheduled it for February 28, but Hunter was in the hospital on that date with a virus. \n Hunter's referral to Dr. Gross by Dr. Yee lists the patient's name as "Hunter W. Taylor (Burt)" and indicates that his parents are Alyssha Taylor and Keith Burt. 3  Dr. Gross testified that upon receiving such a referral, his office should have checked under the last name of both Taylor and Burt to see if a corresponding appointment existed. Dr. Gross explained: \n If somebody's been seen in the hospital, then when we receive a call from the parent to schedule an appointment for a baby by the same name, then when we go to schedule that appointment, we immediately know that they've been to see us before, because they're in our [*74]  filing system already . . . . And that appointment is scheduled as a follow-up appointment. And we know exactly why the patient's coming in because we've already seen them before. [Emphasis added.] \n The reasonable inference from this testimony by Dr. Gross is that at the time Alyssha communicated with Dr. Gross's office on February 14 and 17, Hunter was not a "new patient," he was an existing ROP patient who had already been seen in the hospital and needed a follow-up appointment.  \n  [*75]  Maria Rodriguez, Dr. Gross's receptionist in February 1997, testified that Dr. Gross's office obtained phone numbers for patients when they called in to schedule an appointment. Sometimes, she would obtain the patient's address, "just to get the medical records started." When Rodriguez had time, she called to confirm appointments. If she knew what insurance the patient had, she would remind the patient to bring a referral form. Rodriguez testified that Dr. Gross's office had a policies and procedures manual, which required that the parent be contacted by phone or postcard when a patient did not show up for an appointment. Although Dr. Gross testified that babies seen in the hospital were scheduled as follow-up appointments, not as new patients, Alyssha was not contacted by Dr. Gross's office concerning either of the appointments that Hunter missed. \n Jimmie McMurray testified that in February 1997, she worked in Dr. Gross's office doing insurance billing. She said that after Dr. Gross performed a ROP initial evaluation, he completed a form that included the patient's name, address, and telephone number. He would bring that form back to his office and give it to McMurray. The ROP evaluation [*76]  form for Hunter shows that "[Alyssha] Taylor [and] [Keith] Burt" 4  are his parents and provides a address and phone number for the patient. Dr. Gross's records concerning Hunter indicate that Hunter was a "preemie," i.e., a premature baby. \n Dr. Yee knew monitoring the twins' vision was important, but he expected Dr. Gross to examine the twins [*77]  and then to tell him when they needed to be seen again. The "Dear Parent" letter demonstrates Dr. Gross's agreement to do just that. The letter explains that an in-hospital eye examination is scheduled and that this exam is performed on babies meeting certain birth weight and prematurity standards. It states, "You will be contacted by your baby's pediatric ophthalmologist if any significant findings are detected which would in any way affect your baby's health or vision." The letter goes on to state, "In specific circumstances, your pediatric ophthalmologist may request another ophthalmologist consultant to also check you baby's eyes. Robert D. Gross, M.D., is the Pediatric Ophthalmologist who staffs our NICU." [Emphasis added.] Dr. Gross knew the neonatologist group was using this letter, and Dr. Gross told them "that that was fine with me." \n I agree with the majority's recitation of historical Texas law that a medical malpractice claim is predicated on the existence of a physician-patient relationship. See, e.g., St. John v. Pope, 901 S.W.2d 420, 423, 38 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 723 (Tex. 1995). Where no prior relationship exists, the doctor must take some affirmative step to treat the [*78]  patient before a relationship can be established. Ortiz v. Shah, 905 S.W.2d 609, 611 (Tex. App.--Houston [14th Dist.] 1995, writ denied); Lopez v. Aziz, 852 S.W.2d 303, 306 (Tex. App.--San Antonio 1993, no writ). Once such a relationship exists, however, the physician owes the patient a duty to treat him or her with the skills of a trained, competent professional, and a breach of that duty may give rise to a malpractice action. Reynosa v. Huff, 21 S.W.3d 510, 513 (Tex. App.--San Antonio 2000, no pet.). \n Here, it is undisputed that an initial physician-patient relationship existed between Dr. Gross and Hunter with respect to Hunter's ROP. Consequently, I believe that the issues before us are whether the evidence proves as a matter of law that the relationship was terminated and whether the evidence, viewed in the light most favorable to Hunter, constitutes more than a scintilla of evidence of a continued physician-patient relationship with respect to Hunter's ROP. The cases relied upon by the majority, however, address only whether an initial physician-patient relationship was created, not whether an existing physician-patient relationship [*79]  later continued or was terminated. See, e.g., Majzoub v. Appling, 95 S.W.3d 432, 437 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 2002, pet. denied) (op. on reh'g) (recognizing that no physician-patient relationship was created when "there was no prior physician-patient relationship between Mr. Majzoub and Dr. Appling," Dr. Appling never saw, talked to, or examined Majzoub, and Dr. Appling did not proffer a medical diagnosis of Majzoub's condition or make any medical decisions regarding Majzoub); Jackson v. Isaac, 76 S.W.3d 177, 182 (Tex. App.--Eastland 2002, pet. denied) (holding no physician-patient relationship was created when doctor had never examined patient and patient failed to "show up" for medical treatment because he died before first scheduled appointment with doctor); Ortiz, 905 S.W.2d at 611 (holding no physician-patient relationship was created when on-call doctor never examined patient, talked to him, or gave advice to anyone in emergency room about patient); Day v. Harkins & Munoz, 961 S.W.2d 278, 281 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1997, no writ) (holding no physician-patient relationship was created when [*80]  doctors who agreed only to provide emergency and first aid care to patrons at a concert never treated patient at concert). Consequently, these cases are factually distinguishable from the present case. \n The St. John case is instructive. In St. John, an emergency room doctor phoned the hospital's on-call physician, Dr. St. John, a board-certified internist, and described the patient's symptoms. 901 S.W.2d at 421-22. Dr. St. John determined that the hospital was not equipped to treat the patient and recommended that the patient be referred to another hospital. Id. at 422. The supreme court held that the duty to treat a patient with proper professional skill flows from the consensual relationship between the patient and the physician. Id. at 423. The supreme court held that, as a matter of law, no physician-patient relationship existed between Dr. St. John and the patient because Dr. St. John never agreed to treat the patient. The supreme court explained: \n Although St. John listened to Suarez's description of Pope's symptoms, and came to a conclusion about the basis of Pope's condition, he did so for the purpose of evaluating whether [*81]  he should take the case, not as a diagnosis for a course of treatment. \n  \n Id. at 424 (emphasis added). The supreme court further explained that "it is only with a physician's consent, whether express or implied, that the doctor-patient relationship comes into being." Id. at 423. \n Although St. John also involved the initial formation of the physician-patient relationship as opposed to the continuation or termination of that relationship, the supreme court's analysis focused on two factors that are also applicable to the continuation and termination issues: whether the doctor diagnosed the patient for a course of treatment and whether the doctor expressly or impliedly consented to accept the patient to administer the course of treatment. Focusing on these two factors in addressing whether the physician-patient relationship between Dr. Gross and Hunter continued following Dr. Gross's in-hospital examination and diagnosis of Hunter, more than a scintilla of evidence exists that Dr. Gross diagnosed Hunter for a course of treatment that he, Dr. Gross, intended to provide. \n Dr. Gross examined Hunter in the hospital, diagnosed him with ROP, and knew [*82]  that Hunter required follow-up appointments with a pediatric opthamologist. Dr. Gross recommended a follow-up appointment in two weeks--with himself. He did not tell Alyssha or anyone at the hospital that the follow-up appointments should not be scheduled with him. Dr. Gross voluntarily approved a letter identifying himself as "your pediatric opthamologist," knowing the letter would be attached to Hunter's basinet in the hospital. Dr. Gross took Hunter's ROP screening form to his office so Hunter could be entered as an existing patient for ROP follow-up appointments. Alyssha called, scheduled, and rescheduled appointments for Hunter with Dr. Gross. Thus, more than a scintilla of evidence exists that, unlike Dr. St. John, Dr. Gross did see and evaluate the patient, i.e., Hunter, to diagnose him for a course of treatment. \n Likewise, more than a scintilla of evidence exists that Dr. Gross either expressly or impliedly consented to the continuation of his physician-patient relationship with Hunter. Dr. Gross and Dr. Burke both recognized that the standard of care required a pediatric opthamologist to conduct follow-up appointments with Hunter. The "Dear Parent" letter approved by Dr. Gross [*83]  constitutes some evidence that Dr. Gross voluntarily continued to be Hunter's pediatric opthamologist with respect to the ROP follow-up appointments. The majority discounts the "Dear Parent" letter, noting that Hunter's parents did not rely upon it. Maj. Op. at 20. But viewed in the light most favorable to Hunter, this letter, approved by Dr. Gross, nonetheless constitutes evidence that Dr. Gross perceived his physician-patient relationship with Hunter with respect to the treatment of Hunter's ROP as ongoing, that he consented to the ongoing nature of the relationship, and that he did not intend to terminate the relationship when Hunter left the hospital. Dr. Burke testified that it was Dr. Gross's responsibility to make sure that the follow-up exams on Hunter were carried out--further evidence of the continuing nature of Dr. Gross's relationship with Hunter. \n Additionally, the fact that Dr. Gross utilized a specific form when he performed in-hospital ROP exams on premature newborns, provided that form to his office insurance billing employee, and had the newborn's information entered into his computer system as an existing patient likewise constitutes some evidence that Dr. Gross's [*84]  physician-patient relationship with Hunter continued. Dr. Gross himself testified that for a follow-up appointment "we know exactly why the patient's coming in because we've already seen them before," i.e., that an ongoing physician-patient relationship exists. Finally, the fact that Dr. Gross's office followed a specific procedure when a premature infant missed a scheduled ROP follow-up appointment--calling the parent or sending a card--constitutes more than a scintilla of evidence of Dr. Gross's consent to the continuation of his physician-patient relationship with these premature babies, including Hunter. \n  \n B. Termination Not Established as a Matter of Law \n There is also some evidence that Alyssha terminated the physician-patient relationship between Dr. Gross and Hunter. She did not reschedule the February 28 appointment that Hunter missed when he was in the hospital with a virus. Eventually, in June 1997, Hunter finally obtained an ROP follow-up examination with another pediatric opthamologist where he was diagnosed as legally blind. But, this one fact--Alyssha's failure to reschedule the February 28 appointment after scheduling the February 17 and February 28 appointments--does [*85]  not establish termination as a matter of law in light of the evidence outlined above supporting the deemed finding of a continued physician-patient relationship between Dr. Gross and Hunter. Because the jury could have reasonably concluded from the evidence that the physician-patient relationship between Dr. Gross and Hunter continued, termination was not conclusively established as a matter of law. See, e.g., Transp. Ins. Co. v. Moriel, 879 S.W.2d 10, 25, 37 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 883 (Tex. 1994) (recognizing that the test for conclusive evidence is similar to the test for no evidence in that the court asks whether reasonable minds could differ about the fact determination to be made by the jury). \n The trial court here found, and the parties agreed, that a physician-patient relationship existed as a matter of law between Dr. Gross and Hunter with respect to Hunter's ROP at the time of the in-hospital examination. Based on the record before us, viewing all of the evidence in the light most favorable to Hunter and disregarding all contrary evidence and inferences, I would hold that the evidence is legally sufficient to support the deemed finding that this relationship continued after Dr. Gross's [*86]  in-hospital examination of Hunter. I would also hold that the evidence does not conclusively establish termination of the physician-patient relationship between Hunter and Dr. Gross because reasonable minds can differ on this issue. I would therefore overrule Dr. Gross's first issue and proceed to address the other issues raised by Dr. Gross in this appeal. \n  \n C. Legal Sufficiency Review Does Not Result in Expanded Duty \n In its conclusion concerning Dr. Gross's appeal, the majority theorizes that to hold sufficient evidence exists supporting the deemed finding that the physician-patient relationship between Dr. Gross and Hunter continued would "expand the duty of continued care to all patients who are seen at hospitals by consulting physicians beyond the hospital setting." Maj. Op. at 27. I must respectfully disagree. Two main facts remove this case from the general category of cases referenced by the majority: cases where a "duty of continued care [would be owed] to all patients who are seen at hospitals by consulting physicians beyond the hospital setting." Maj. Op. at 27. First, the "Dear Patient" letter approved by Dr. Gross specifically labeling him as "your pediatric [*87]  opthamologist" removes this case from this general category of cases. Second, the guidelines set by The American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Association for Pediatric Opthamology and Strabismus, and the American Academy of Opthamology, and recognized by Dr. Gross as constituting the standard of care likewise remove this case from this general category of cases referenced by the majority. The standard of care for requires that infants with ROP, like Hunter, "be seen at least every 1 to 2 weeks until normal vascularization proceeds to Zone III or the risk of attaining threshold conditions is passed." Thus, a pediatric opthamologist, like Dr. Gross, making a diagnosis of ROP in the hospital knows when the diagnosis is made that the standard of care requires very rapid follow-up appointments. A doctor who sees a patient in the hospital, diagnoses the patient for a course of treatment, holds himself out in writing as the patient's doctor, recommends follow-up treatment for the patient with himself, understands that the standard of care requires immediate follow-up treatment, and is said by an expert to be responsible for taking steps to make sure the follow-up treatment occurs,  [*88]  is not simply a consulting physician. I cannot agree that holding the evidence legally sufficient to support the deemed finding of a continued physician-patient relationship between Dr. Gross and Hunter would constitute a expansion of the duties imposed on any consulting doctor who does not diagnose a patient for a course of treatment, does not hold himself out in writing as the patient's doctor, does not recommend follow-up treatment for the patient with himself, and does not admit that the standard of care requires that follow-up treatment occurs. \n  \n III. CONCLUSION \n Because more than a scintilla of evidence exists supporting the jury's implied finding that Dr. Gross's physician-patient relationship with Hunter continued after Dr. Gross's in-hospital examination of Hunter, and because the evidence does not conclusively establish termination of that relationship, I would overrule Dr. Gross's first issue and proceed to address his remaining issues. \n SUE WALKER \n JUSTICE  \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 