Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n Appellant sued appellee for negligence in connection with the sale of bullets used in a shooting death. The 285th District Court of Hockley County (Texas) granted summary judgment in favor of appellee. Appellant sought review. \n Overview \n A 14-year-old shot and killed decedent using .45 caliber bullets purchased from a pawn shop owned and operated by appellee. Appellant sought recovery for appellee's alleged negligence in selling the ammunition. The court affirmed the trial court's grant of summary judgment to appellee. Even if the sale of ammunition in violation of 18 U.S.C.S. § 922(b)(1) was negligence per se, appellant failed to show that the sale was a proximate cause of decedent's death. The criminal conduct of the 14-year-old was a superseding cause relieving appellee from liability. There was no evidence raising a fact issue as to whether appellee could have discerned that the 14-year-old was incompetent, reckless, or dangerous at the time of the sale of the ammunition. \n Outcome \n Summary judgment was affirmed because appellant failed to present any evidence to show that appellee had any facts from which he should have been able to foresee the subsequent criminal act resulting in death. \n Counsel: Christopher Carver, Richard Hardy, Kevin Glasheen, FADDUOL GLASHEEN & VALLES P.C., Lubbock, TX. \n Charlotte Bingham, CRENSHAW DUPREE & MILAM L.L.P., Lubbock, TX.   \n Judges: PANEL D, Before BOYD, C.J., and QUINN and REAVIS, JJ.   \n Opinion by: John T. Boyd \n Opinion \n  \n  \n In this appeal, appellant Willie Holder, as next friend of Johnell Condren, seeks reversal of a take-nothing summary judgment in favor of appellee R.L. Bowman, individually and d/b/a AAA Pawn Shop. For reasons we later discuss, we affirm the judgment of the trial court. \n On or about September 19, 1993, 14-year-old Steven Barker shot and killed Jackie Condren using .45 caliber bullets purchased from AAA Pawn Shop. Appellee owned and operated the pawn shop. Jackie's wife, Johnell Condren, his father, Claude Condren, and his three children, Rikki, Ronald, and Jackie, Jr. filed suit against appellee individually and in his ownership capacity. In the suit, the plaintiffs sought recovery for appellee's alleged negligence in selling the ammunition. The claims of the Condren children were subsequently dismissed with prejudice, leaving Johnell as the sole plaintiff.  \n  [*2]  Subsequently, in a second amended petition, the plaintiff was designated as Deen Holder, the next friend of Johnell, because of Johnell's alleged mental incompetency. Still later, in a third amended petition, Holder was substituted as Johnell's next friend and was designated as the plaintiff. On May 27, 1997, the trial court rendered summary judgment in favor of appellee decreeing that Willie Holder, as Johnell's next friend, and "Johnell Condren" take nothing in their suit.  \n An appeal from this judgment was taken by Holder, as Johnell's next friend. However, that appeal was dismissed and the cause remanded by us because we had no jurisdiction to consider it. That lack of jurisdiction arose because the third amended petition in which Holder in his representative capacity was substituted as a party had never been filed in the district clerk's office. \n Subsequent to our remand, appellee filed his first amended motion for summary judgment. On December 27, 1999, the trial court granted that amended motion and rendered summary judgment against "Plaintiff, Willie Holder, as Next Friend of Johnell Condren, and against Johnell Condren, Individually." The trial court also severed the causes [*3]  of action "asserted by Plaintiffs, Willie Holder, as Next Friend of Johnell Condren and Johnell Condren" against appellee from the remaining causes in the case. Hence, this appeal. \n In pursuing the appeal, Holder presents four issues for our consideration. Those issues are whether the trial court erred in entering its judgment 1) on the basis of res judicata, 2) on the basis that Holder is not a proper party and had no standing to bring this suit as next friend of Johnell Condren, 3) in effect holding that the evidence did not raise an issue for the jury to consider as to whether or not the sale of the "Super Vel" .45 caliber hand gun ammunition to a child may constitute negligence or negligence per se, and 4) based on Rule 166a(i) of the Rules of Civil Procedure regarding negligence.  \n One of the bases of appellee's first amended motion for summary judgment was a "no evidence" averment under subpart (i) of Rule 166a of the Texas Rules of Civil Procedure. In that motion, appellee averred that Holder could not prove the essential elements of his claims of negligence and negligence per se because he could not establish that appellee owed a legal duty to Johnell Condren or [*4]  that the breach of duty was a proximate cause of the injury, because he had no evidence of the essential elements of his claim. \n Because they are dispositive of this appeal, we will proceed directly to discuss issues 3 and 4. The elements of a negligence cause of action are a duty, a breach of that duty, and damages proximately caused by the breach of duty. Doe v. Boys Clubs of Greater Dallas, Inc., 907 S.W.2d 472, 477 (Tex. 1995). The existence of a duty in a given case is a question of law to be determined from the particular facts of the case.  Golden Spread Council, Inc. v. Akins, 926 S.W.2d 287, 289 (Tex. 1996). \n In response to appellee's "no evidence of negligence" assertion, Holder cites 18 U.S.C.A. § 922(b)(1) (2000). Parenthetically, the only Texas statute that might even remotely be considered relevant is section 46.06 of the Texas Penal Code. See Tex. Penal Code Ann.  § 46.06 (Vernon Supp. 2001). In relevant part, that section proscribes the sale of any firearm, club, or illegal knife to any minor under the age of 18 years. Id. (a)(2). That, of course, is not the situation before us.  [*5]  Thus, the parties are agreed that there is not presently any applicable Texas statute.  \n The federal statute provides that it is unlawful for a licensed dealer to sell or deliver any firearm or ammunition to an individual who the licensee knows or has reasonable cause to believe is less than 18 years of age and, if the firearm or ammunition is other than a shotgun or rifle, to an individual who the licensee knows or has reasonable cause to believe is less than 21 years of age. Holder argues that this statute was violated, and the violation supports a claim for negligence per se. \n In support of his negligence per se argument, Holder cites Missouri Pac. R. Co. v. American Statesman, 552 S.W.2d 99 (Tex. 1977). In that case, the court enunciated the general principle that when a legislative act has decreed that a particular act shall not be done, it fixes a standard of reasonable care, and an unexcused violation of the statute constitutes negligence as a matter of law. Id. at 103. However, the court went on to point out that a finding of negligence per se only subjects the offending party to possible liability because a showing is required [*6]  that such negligence was a proximate cause of the damages. Id. In additional explication, in Nixon v. Mr. Property Management Co., 690 S.W.2d 546 (Tex. 1985), the court pointed out that the unexplained violation of a statute or ordinance only constitutes negligence as a matter of law if the statute or ordinance was designed to prevent injury to the class of people to which the injured party belongs.  Id. at 549; see also El Chico Corp. v. Poole, 732 S.W.2d 306, 312 (Tex. 1987).  \n Holder argues that the federal law "was meant to protect both children and the public at large from the ill advised use of deadly weapons by those who are too immature to recognize the gravity of the danger." Because of this, he reasons, Johnell Condren was a member of the class that this statute was intended to protect, and her husband was killed by the actions of a minor which were an outgrowth of an action prohibited by the statute. \n Predictably, and without citation of relevant authority, appellee denies that Johnell and her husband were in the class of persons the statute was intended to protect, and therefore, the violation of the statute did not [*7]  give rise to a duty. Because the decision of this particular question is not essential to our disposition of this appeal, for the purpose of our further discussion, we will assume, arguendo, that the sale of the ammunition to Barker when he was a minor was the breach of a duty owed to Johnell. Having made that assumption, we must now turn our focus to a determination if the sale of the ammunition was a proximate cause of the death of Johnell's husband. \n As we have noted above, even if an act or omission constitutes negligence or negligence per se, no liability attaches unless that act or omission was the proximate cause of the injuries sustained.  Nixon, 690 S.W.2d at 549; Missouri Pacific, 552 S.W.2d at 103; Chapman v. Oshman's Sporting Goods, Inc., 792 S.W.2d 785, 787 (Tex.App.--Houston [14th Dist.] 1990, writ denied). Proximate cause consists of both cause in fact and foreseeability. El Chico, 732 S.W.2d at 313; Nixon, 690 S.W.2d at 549. Cause in fact means that the act or omission was a substantial factor in bringing about the injury and without which no harm would have occurred.  Nixon, 690 S.W.2d at 549. [*8]   \n Holder argues that proximate cause, particularly the element of cause in fact, is a question for the jury, and it was therefore improper to render summary judgment in this case. Holder further argues that the resulting criminal conduct was foreseeable in this instance because the sale of ammunition was to a minor which may lead to the use of the ammunition to harm others. Conversely, appellee contends that he could not have reasonably foreseen that the ammunition would be used to kill someone, and the criminal act of Barker was an independent intervening cause which broke any causal connection between the sale of ammunition to a minor and the death of Jackie Condren. \n The criminal conduct of a third party is a superseding cause relieving a negligent person from liability unless the criminal conduct was a foreseeable result of the negligence.  Nixon, 690 S.W.2d at 550. In Chapman, an employee of Oshman's Sporting Goods purchased a gun and resold it to an acquaintance, Ronald Buede, who committed murder with it.  Chapman, 792 S.W.2d at 786. The court explained the issue of proximate cause as follows: \n Even assuming, arguendo, that Oshman's was directly or vicariously [*9]  negligent in the sale of the gun, Buede's criminal conduct was a superceding cause that relieved Oshman's of liability. Once Oshman's presented as summary judgment evidence a certified copy of Buede's guilty plea and judgment of conviction for first degree murder, appellant could defeat Oshman's motion for summary judgment only by presenting evidence that raises a factual issue as to whether Buede's criminal conduct was foreseeable. \n  \n Id. at 787. In this instance, because appellee asserted a "no evidence" motion for summary judgment, the burden was upon Holder to produce evidence raising a genuine issue of material fact as to proximate cause. See Tex. R. Civ. P. 166a (i). Holder attached a copy of Barker's confession to his response to appellee's first amended motion for summary judgment. In that confession, Barker admits killing Jackie Condren. He also recites the circumstances of his purchase of the bullets at a time when he was a minor. Although this document is not certified, assuming arguendo that it is admissible and competent summary judgment evidence, it only serves to establish the criminal conduct of Barker as a superceding cause of Jackie Condren's [*10]  death.  \n The question then becomes whether Barker's criminal conduct was reasonably foreseeable. The summary judgment record is lacking in any specific evidence which raises a fact issue as to whether appellee could have discerned that Barker was incompetent, reckless or dangerous at the time of the sale of the ammunition and therefore, his subsequent criminal conduct was foreseeable on the part of appellee. In his argument, Holder would apparently have us hold that criminal conduct is reasonably foreseeable in every instance where a minor has a gun or ammunition in his/her possession, an argument which would essentially require a seller to be an insurer of any injuries resulting from a sale to a minor. While there are Texas cases holding to the contrary of that argument, Holder does not cite us to any Texas cases in support of his proposition.  \n In Prather v. Brandt, 981 S.W.2d 801 (Tex.App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1998, pet. denied), the victim of a drive-by shooting by a minor also sued the father of the minor for his alleged negligence in giving the shotgun used in the shooting to the minor.  Id. at 804. The trial court directed a verdict for the [*11]  father, and the appellate court affirmed that action of the trial court. In doing so, the court noted the general rule that a "defendant has a duty to protect others from the criminal acts of a third party only if it reasonably appears or should appear to him that the criminal act would be the foreseeable result of his negligence." Id. at 806. The court went on to instruct that a parent's duty to protect third parties from his child's acts depends on whether the injury to the third party is foreseeable and, it noted, "foreseeability is evaluated by looking at the parent's knowledge of, consent to, or participation in the child's activity." Id. at 807; see also Greater Houston Transp. Co. v. Phillips, 801 S.W.2d 523, 526-27 (Tex. 1990) (no duty by employer to warn cab drivers not to carry guns). \n Courts in other jurisdictions have also declined to establish such a harsh rule. In Fly v. Cannon, 836 S.W.2d 570 (Tenn. Ct. App. 1992), ammunition was sold illegally to a man under the age of 21 as prohibited by the federal statute, and the ammunition was then used in the shooting of a third person.  Id. at 571. [*12]  The court found that the illegal sale "at most, created a condition by which the unfortunate incident was made possible. The direct and proximate cause of the incident was the action of Cannon in firing a gun at a supposed intruder." Id. at 575. \n Similarly, in Robinson v. Howard Bros. of Jackson, Inc., 372 So. 2d 1074 (Miss. 1979), the defendant sold a pistol and ammunition to a minor, who then killed a woman. The court noted that the employee who sold the pistol to the minor had known him when they were in school together, and there was no evidence to indicate the minor had a previous criminal record or the propensity to handle firearms dangerously.  Id. at 1076. The court then went on to state: \n The act of Alexander in murdering Mrs. Robinson was an independent intervening agency which superseded the negligence of defendants. The proximate cause of the death of Mrs. Robinson was not the negligence of the defendants but the premeditated murder of Mrs. Robinson by Alexander. Under the facts in this case we do not believe that the defendants could have reasonably foreseen that Alexander would commit a murder with the pistol and ammunition [*13]  which he purchased more than two weeks earlier. \n Id. \n Holder does cite us to authority arguably supporting the contrary proposition in Mautino v. Piercedale Supply Co., 338 Pa. 435, 13 A.2d 51 (Pa. 1940), in which ammunition was sold to a minor who later discharged several bullets into the door of a neighbor, killing another minor child.  Mautino, 13 A.2d at 53. The court there found that the illegal sale of ammunition to a minor was a proximate cause of death.  Mautino, 13 A.2d at 54. In addition to the fact that Texas case law does not support the Mautino holding, we further note that there is much less reason to foresee intentional criminal activity than those acts which are merely negligent.  \n A seller of firearms or ammunition generally has the right to assume that a minor will act in a law abiding manner. While situations may exist where a seller has specific information available to him which could make criminal activity foreseeable as the result of the sale of a firearm or ammunition to a minor, in this instance, there was no evidence presented in response to the summary judgment motion to show that appellee had any facts from which he should have been able to foresee [*14]  Barker's subsequent criminal act. Holder's fourth issue is overruled. \n In summary, because our determination of Holder's fourth issue is dispositive of this appeal, the judgment of the trial court must be, and is, hereby affirmed. \n John T. Boyd \n Chief Justice  \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 