Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n The 193rd District Court, Dallas County (Texas), entered summary judgments for appellee first doctor, clinic, nurse, hospital, and second doctor after appellant first mental patient, individually and on behalf of other litigants, alleged that their negligent discharge of her caused her serious injuries and damages. The first mental patient and the other litigants appealed. \n Overview \n The first mental patient was injured when the first doctor released her from the clinic and the hospital's care, and the second mental patient was released by the second doctor. The nurse knew that the two patients had bonded and had reason to know that once the two patients were released, they would spend time together. The two patients were released. They were soon joined by a third mental patient. The three were driving in the second mental patient's vehicle when it was involved in a single-car accident that killed the third mental patient and seriously injured the other two mental patients. The trial court granted summary judgment to the first doctor, the clinic, the nurse, the hospital, and the second doctor on the ground that their negligence, if any, was not a proximate cause of the first mental patient's injuries. After judgment was entered, the appellate court found that fact issues on proximate cause precluded summary judgment for the first doctor, clinic, nurse, hospital, and in certain respects, the second doctor. Also, their cross-points challenging the summary judgment evidence and the issue of the duty owed to the first mental patient had to be overruled. \n Outcome \n Summary judgments granted to first doctor, clinic, nurse, and hospital were reversed. Summary judgment for second doctor under negligent treatment or discharge theory was affirmed, but summary judgment to him on respondeat superior and not developing adequate clinic policies and procedures were reversed. Cross points were also overruled, including first doctor and clinic's request to affirm summary judgment on basis they owed no duty to patient. \n Judges: Before Justices Moseley, Bridges, and Farris. 1  Opinion By Justice Farris. Dissenting Opinion By Justice Bridges. \n Opinion by: DAVID F. FARRIS \n Opinion \n  \n  \n Opinion By Justice Farris \n This is an appeal from a summary judgment granted in favor of IHS Cedars Treatment Center of Desoto, Texas, Inc., The Cedars Mental Health Center Innovative Healthcare Systems, Inc. (collectively, Cedars Hospital), Minirth-Meier Clinic, P.A. (Clinic), Teofilo Moses V. Ramos, Jr., M.D., Paul Meier, M.D., and Sandra J. Duryea Marx, R.N. (collectively appellees) in a medical malpractice claim. Jodi Marie Mason (Mason), individually and as next friend of Ashley Ladon Mansfield and Courtney Marie Mason, minors, and Karen Rudd (collectively, appellants) sued appellees contending appellees' negligent [*2]  discharge of Mason caused her to be seriously injured. In three issues, appellants contend the trial court erred in granting summary judgment. We affirm in part, reverse in part, and remand to the trial court for further proceedings. \n  \n Facts \n This case involves three people who were voluntarily admitted for treatment at the Clinic and Cedars Hospital. 2  On July 26, 1993, Mason was admitted for depression and was treated by Ramos. Thereafter, Richard Alexander Cleveland and Cynthia Thomas were admitted, and both were treated by Meier. On the evening of August 16, 1993, Mason and Thomas informed Nurse Marx they wanted to be released, and Marx telephoned both Ramos and Meier to obtain permission for their respective patient's unscheduled discharge. Each doctor gave his authorization, and Mason and Thomas were discharged at the same time. The next day, Cleveland asked for a pass to go riding with Thomas and "another former patient." Meier refused Cleveland's pass request and discouraged Cleveland's early release. Cleveland agreed to stay, but later left the hospital. On August 18, 1993, Mason, Thomas, and Cleveland were involved in a single-car accident in a vehicle owned and [*3]  driven by Thomas. As a result of the accident, Cleveland was killed. Mason and Thomas sustained serious injuries. \n Appellants sued for Mason's injuries, alleging various acts of negligence. The allegations against Ramos involve his treatment, discharge, and post-release care of Mason. The allegations against the other appellees involve Mason's care and discharge and the simultaneous discharge of Thomas. Appellants also alleged that Meier, the Clinic, and Cedars Hospital failed to have adequate policies and procedures in place and failed to take action to prevent inappropriate conduct between patients. All appellees moved for summary judgment, asserting they owed no duty to Mason and that their conduct was not a proximate cause of her injuries. The trial court granted summary judgment for each on the basis [*4]  that appellees' respective negligence, if any, was not a proximate cause of Mason's injuries. \n  \n Standard of Review \n The standards for reviewing a summary judgment are well established. See Nixon v. Mr. Prop. Mgmt. Co., 690 S.W.2d 546, 548-49 (Tex. 1985); City of Houston v. Clear Creek Basin Auth., 589 S.W.2d 671, 678 (Tex. 1979). A summary judgment for the defendant disposing of the entire case is proper only if, as a matter of law, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the plaintiff, the plaintiff could not succeed upon any theory pleaded. Delgado v. Burns, 656 S.W.2d 428, 429 (Tex. 1983) (per curiam); Portlock v. Perry, 852 S.W.2d 578, 581 (Tex. App.-Dallas 1993, writ denied). We must review the summary judgment grounds on which the trial court actually ruled and which are dispositive of the appeal.  Baker Hughes, Inc. v. Keco R. & D., Inc., 12 S.W.3d 1, 5 (Tex. 1999). In the interest of judicial economy, we are also authorized to review other grounds the movant preserved for review on which the trial judge did not rule. Id.; Cincinnati Life Ins. Co. v. Cates, 927 S.W.2d 623, 626 (Tex. 1996). [*5]   \n  \n Proximate Causation \n Proximate cause includes two elements: cause-in-fact and foreseeability. Doe v. Boys Clubs of Greater Dallas, Inc., 907 S.W.2d 472, 477 (Tex. 1995). These elements cannot be established by mere conjecture, guess, or speculation. Id.; McClure v. Allied Stores of Tex., Inc., 608 S.W.2d 901, 903 (Tex. 1980). However, like any other ultimate fact, proximate cause may be established by direct or circumstantial evidence and the reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence.  McClure, 608 S.W.2d at 903-04. Moreover, the plaintiff is not required to establish causation in terms of medical certainty, nor is he required to exclude every other reasonable hypothesis. See Kramer v. Lewisville Mem'l Hosp., 858 S.W.2d 397, 400 (Tex. 1993). \n  \n Cause-in-fact means that the defendant's act or omission was a substantial factor in bringing about the injury which would not otherwise have occurred.  Doe, 907 S.W.2d at 477; Nixon, 690 S.W.2d at 549. Cause-in-fact is not shown if the defendant's negligence did no more than furnish a condition that made the [*6]  injury possible.  Union Pump Co. v. Allbritton, 898 S.W.2d 773, 776 (Tex. 1995). However, there may be more than one proximate cause of an event.  Lear Siegler, Inc. v. Perez, 819 S.W.2d 470, 471 (Tex. 1991); McAfee v. Travis Gas Corp., 137 Tex. 314, 322, 153 S.W.2d 442, 447 (1941). All persons who contributed to the injury are liable; the negligence of one does not excuse the negligence of another.  El Chico Corp. v. Poole, 732 S.W.2d 306, 313 (Tex. 1987). \n  \n The second element of proximate cause, foreseeability, requires that a person of ordinary intelligence should have anticipated the danger created by the negligent act or omission. Doe, 907 S.W.2d at 478. It is not necessary that the actor foresee the particular accident or injury which in fact occurs.  Trinity River Auth. v. Williams, 689 S.W.2d 883, 886 (Tex. 1985). Nor must he anticipate just how the injury will grow out of a particular dangerous situation.  Brown v. Edwards Transfer Co., 764 S.W.2d 220, 223-24 (Tex. 1988). All that is required is that the injury be of such a general character as might reasonably [*7]  have been anticipated and that the injured party be so situated with relation to the wrongful act that injury might reasonably have been foreseen.  Id. at 224. \n  \n Evidence of Proximate Causation \n In their motions for summary judgment, appellees each argued that the sole proximate cause of Mason's injuries was the automobile accident. As evidence, appellees relied upon the accident report, which states the accident was caused by Thomas's driving at an unsafe speed and taking faulty evasive action to avoid hitting a dog in the road. In response, appellants filed the Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) accident records, Mason's affidavit, and the affidavit of appellants' expert witness, Stephen Kramer, M.D., which was supported by Mason's and Thomas's medical records and other affidavits and depositions. Appellants also filed copies of the contracts between Cedars Hospital and the Clinic and the policies, rules, and regulations of Cedars Hospital. \n In her affidavit, Mason stated she would not have left Cedars Hospital if Ramos had denied her discharge and she was with Thomas from the time of their discharge until the accident occurred. According to Mason,  [*8]  Thomas went into an angry rage while driving her Corvette, accelerated the car to a very high rate of speed, and lost control of the vehicle. The DPS records show that, while traveling on I-20 at a high rate of speed, Thomas's car went off the road into the center grass median, reentered the road, crossed over both lanes of I-20, and flipped twice before resting. The car was airborne for thirty-five feet during the first flip and twenty-four feet during the second flip. The car left 150 feet of visible skid marks, but because it was equipped with an anti-lock brake system, the car's speed could not be determined based on the skid marks. A witness the Corvette passed on the road estimated Thomas's speed at over 100 miles per hour. Kramer opined, based on Mason's affidavit and Thomas's medical records, that Thomas experienced a psychotic episode while driving. \n Kramer analyzed Mason's medical records, which showed Ramos admitted her to Cedars Hospital for severe depression. Although suicide precautions were soon lifted, Mason made little progress. In his records, Ramos characterized his discussions with Mason as regarding "passive death," not caring if someone would hurt her. According [*9]  to Kramer, the progress notes of the day before and the day of discharge reflect a severely ill patient. Kramer opined that Mason was at risk for placing herself in a position to cause serious harm to herself, that discharging a patient with the same or similar condition as Mason would expose her to an extreme risk of harm, and that the negligent care and discharge of Mason were proximate causes of her injuries. \n Kramer also noted that several entries in Mason's record related to conflicts with another patient, whom Mason identified as Thomas. Kramer analyzed Thomas's medical records. Thomas had been admitted to Cedars Hospital for depression, prior suicide attempt, and poly-substance abuse. Her psychological test results suggested she was delusional and prone to act out in anti-social ways, and her progress notes reflected inappropriate behavior while at Cedars Hospital. Marx testified by deposition that Mason and Thomas had bonded during their hospitalizations. It was the opinion of Marx and others at the hospital that their relationship was detracting from their respective recoveries. Kramer opined that the failure to investigate and intercede in the interaction and relationship [*10]  between Mason and Thomas was also a proximate cause of Mason's injuries. \n In her deposition, Marx testified she knew Mason was going to go spend time with Thomas. She did nothing to discourage such contact. Marx testified that, when talking to Ramos concerning Mason's discharge request, she told Ramos that Mason planned to spend time with Thomas. Kramer opined it was reasonably foreseeable that one mental patient leaving a facility with another mental patient would result in harm to one, if not both, of the patients. Kramer opined that allowing Mason to be discharged with Thomas was a proximate cause of Mason's injuries. \n In response to Meier's motion for summary judgment, Kramer's affidavit placed additional emphasis on evidence related to Meier's knowledge that Thomas was dangerous and was riding around with another "former patient." In his deposition, Meier testified that he denied Cleveland a pass to go riding with Thomas and the other "former patient" because Meier believed Thomas might drive too fast or might act inappropriately. \n Under the medical management contract between the Clinic and Cedars Hospital, Meier was designated a co-director of the Clinic. The contract provided [*11]  that Meier was responsible for program planning, implementation, and evaluation to ensure quality care and effective treatments for patients. He was also responsible for the development, implementation, and supervision of written policies and procedures for all Clinic services. Dr. Minirth testified by deposition that the Clinic had no written policies or procedures other than those of Cedars Hospital. The policies and procedures produced in discovery by Cedars Hospital relating to the early discharge of a patient became effective in 1994, after the events relevant to this lawsuit.  \n In response to Cedars Hospital and Marx's motion for summary judgment, Kramer's affidavit placed additional emphasis on evidence related to the inadequate discharge procedures at the hospital. According to Kramer, Marx did not review Mason's records, properly interview her for discharge, require her to sign a discharge request, or sufficiently advise either doctor about the two patients leaving the hospital together. In his deposition, Ramos testified that he was not advised the patients were being discharged together and that he relied on Marx to make a preliminary assessment concerning the requested [*12]  discharge. Ramos testified concerning the significance of information about his patient leaving with another psychiatric patient who might be an inappropriate influence. \n In response to Marx and Cedars Hospital's motion, appellants also included the expert witness affidavit of Celia Wintz regarding the standard of care applicable to nurses in psychiatric facilities. Wintz analyzed Mason's and Thomas's medical records and opined that Marx should have realized Mason was severely ill. Moreover, Marx was aware of the inappropriate bonding between Mason and Thomas and was aware the two patients planned to spend time together. Wintz opined that Marx deviated from the applicable standard of care in various ways and that Marx's acts or omissions were a proximate cause of Mason's injuries. Wintz also opined that Cedars Hospital failed to provide adequate training to its psychiatric nurses. Kramer opined that Cedars Hospital's policies and procedures were inadequate and they prevented a proper nursing assessment of Mason and the conveyance of pertinent information to Ramos. Kramer further opined that the inadequate policies and procedures were also a proximate cause of Mason's injuries. \n  \n  [*13] Analysis of Proximate Causation For Each Defendant \n Ramos \n The theories of negligence appellants alleged against Ramos included negligent care and treatment of Mason, negligent discharge of Mason, failure to begin commitment procedures, negligence in allowing Mason to leave with Thomas, and negligent post-release care. \n  \n From Kramer's affidavit and the supporting documents concerning Mason's care and treatment, a jury could infer that Mason was severely ill, she developed an unhealthy relationship with Thomas, and it was foreseeable that Mason would accompany Thomas, putting herself in harm's way. A jury could also infer that Ramos knew or should have known that his discharge of Mason with Thomas was likely to create a situation whereby a third person would commit a tort or crime upon Mason. See Nixon, 690 S.W.2d at 550. Therefore, fact issues exist concerning whether Ramos's alleged negligence was a substantial factor in bringing about Mason's injury. Appellants' evidence also raises a fact issue regarding whether a reasonably prudent psychiatrist should have anticipated that the unscheduled and simultaneous discharge of two mental patients would [*14]  result in the type of danger and injury that Mason suffered. Therefore, we conclude that the trial court erred in granting summary judgment for Ramos on the basis of proximate causation. \n Ramos contends the lapse of time between the discharge and the accident defeats cause-in-fact as a matter of law. We disagree. The summary judgment evidence shows Mason intended to "spend time" with Thomas and they were together continuously from the time of discharge until the accident. It should be up to a jury to decide whether the effect of Ramos's conduct was a substantial factor that operated to bring harm to Mason or whether the connection between Ramos's conduct and Mason's injuries was too remote to warrant liability. We find no authority supporting Ramos's contention that a twenty-eight hour delay negates cause-in-fact as a matter of law. \n Meier \n Appellants' allegations against Meier can be grouped into four categories: negligent care and discharge of Mason, negligent discharge of Thomas, failure to provide adequate policies and procedures for patient care and discharge, and vicarious liability for negligence of others. In his motion for summary judgment, Meier asserted the [*15]  car accident was the sole proximate cause of Mason's injuries, and he produced sufficient summary judgment evidence to shift the burden to appellants to provide evidence creating a fact issue on proximate causation. 3  \n Under appellants' theory of recovery related to the care and discharge of Mason, appellants presented no summary judgment evidence to show Meier provided any care to Mason that was a proximate cause of Mason's injuries. Therefore, summary judgment was appropriate for allegations related to Meier's care and discharge of Mason. \n Under appellants' theory of recovery related [*16]  to the discharge of Thomas, appellants presented evidence attempting to show that Meier's treatment and discharge of Thomas proximately caused Mason's injuries. However, even if Meier had the authority to control Thomas and had a duty to protect third parties from a known risk of harm concerning Thomas, we conclude there is no evidence Meier knew or should have known Mason was such a party at the time of her discharge. 4  Therefore, there was no evidence Mason's injuries were foreseeable to Meier, and thus no evidence Meier's alleged negligent discharge of Thomas was a proximate cause of Mason's injuries. Accordingly, summary judgment in favor of Meier was also appropriate under this theory of recovery. \n  [*17]  Under appellants' theory of recovery alleging Meier failed to provide adequate policies and procedures for patient care and discharge, appellants produced summary judgment evidence that Meier was responsible for the development and implementation of policies and procedures for the Clinic, the Clinic had no policies or procedures for patient discharge, the Clinic followed Cedars Hospital's policies and procedures, and Cedars Hospital had no policies or procedures for patient discharge in effect at the time of this occurrence. The affidavits of Kramer and Wintz further create a fact issue that the lack of policies and procedures was a proximate cause of Mason's injuries. Because a fact issue on proximate causation exists under this theory of recovery, a summary judgment disposing of this claim against Meier was inappropriate. 5  \n  [*18]  With regard to appellants' theory of recovery that Meier was vicariously liable for the negligence of other people, appellants presented evidence creating a fact issue on proximate causation for other defendants. Meier contested his vicarious liability in his motion for summary judgment. However, the trial court granted summary judgment based on proximate cause alone, and Meier failed to file a conditional cross-point on appeal asserting he was not vicariously liable as a matter of law. Thus, he has failed to preserve this issue for our review. See Cincinnati Life Ins. Co., 927 S.W.2d at 627. \n  \n The Clinic \n Appellants' allegations against the Clinic also included claims of negligent care and discharge of Mason and failure to have adequate policies and procedures in place. In its motion for summary judgment, the Clinic denied it owed any duty to Mason. Because the Clinic brought a separate cross-point its duty, if any, to Mason, we discuss that issue below. However, assuming the Clinic breached some duty owed to Mason, we conclude there is sufficient summary judgment evidence to create a fact issue regarding whether the Clinic's acts or omissions were a [*19]  cause-in-fact of Mason's injuries and whether hers were the type of injuries that were reasonably foreseeable. Therefore, the court erred in granting summary judgment in favor of the Clinic based on lack of proximate causation. \n Marx \n Appellants' allegations against Marx included claims of negligent care and discharge of Mason. We conclude there is sufficient evidence to present a fact issue on proximate causation and that the jury could infer that Marx's acts or omissions set in motion a foreseeable and unbroken chain of events that led to a reasonably foreseeable injury or result. Therefore, the court erred in granting summary judgment for Marx based on lack of proximate causation. \n Cedars Hospital \n Appellants' allegations against Cedars Hospital included claims of negligent care and discharge of Mason under a theory of respondeat superior. Because nurse Marx was an employee of Cedars Hospital, the proximate causation of her negligence, if any, may be imputed to Cedars Hospital. See Espalin v. Children's Med. Ctr. of Dallas, 27 S.W.3d 675, 683 (Tex. App.-Dallas 2000, no pet.); McCombs v. Children's Med. Ctr. of Dallas, 1 S.W.3d 256, 259 [*20]  (Tex. App.-Texarkana 1999, pet. denied). Appellants also alleged Cedars Hospital failed to have adequate policies and procedures in place for patient care and discharge. See Tenet Health Ltd. v. Zamora, 13 S.W.3d 464, 471 (Tex. App.-Corpus Christi 2000, pet. dism'd w.o.j.) (discussing hospital duties owed to patients independent of physician's duties). We conclude that appellants' evidence raises a fact issue on whether the inadequacy of policies and procedures set in motion a foreseeable and unbroken chain of events that led to a reasonably foreseeable injury or result. Therefore, the court erred in granting summary judgment for Cedars Hospital on the basis of proximate causation. \n  \n Summary Judgment Affidavits \n Appellees each bring conditional cross-points complaining of the expert witness affidavits used as appellants' summary judgment evidence. 6  On appeal and in the trial court, each appellee challenged Kramer's opinion that Thomas experienced a psychotic episode while driving. Appellees contend the opinion is inadmissible because it is conclusory; it is based on Mason's inadmissible opinion that Thomas went into an angry rage while driving; it stacks [*21]  an inference upon another inference; and it contains an unreasonable inference. \n We review a trial court's rulings concerning the admission of summary judgment evidence under an abuse of discretion standard.  Wolfe v. C.S.P.H., Inc., 24 S.W.3d 641, 646 (Tex. App.-Dallas 2000, no pet.). An affidavit of a witness is not conclusory if it explains the basis of the witness's statements to link conclusions to facts. See Earle v. Ratliff, 998 S.W.2d 882, 890 (Tex. 1999); Rizkallah v. Conner, 952 S.W.2d 580, 587 (Tex. App.-Houston [1st Dist.] 1997, no pet.). We conclude that Kramer's affidavits are not conclusory because they establish [*22]  his credentials as an expert witness, identify the material he relied upon in rendering his opinion, and explain the basis of his statements to link his conclusions to facts. \n We further conclude that Kramer's opinion does not violate the rule against stacking an inference upon another inference. See Briones v. Levine's Dep't Store, Inc., 446 S.W.2d 7, 10 (Tex. 1969). Rule 703 of the Texas Rules of Evidence requires an expert's opinion to be based upon facts or data perceived or reviewed during or before trial. TEX. R. EVID. 703. Kramer links his opinion to both Thomas's medical records and Mason's affidavit testimony concerning Thomas's conduct at the time of the collision. Because Mason was in the car with Thomas and she personally observed Thomas's demeanor, Mason's testimony regarding Thomas's demeanor was admissible as direct evidence. See TEX. R. EVID. 602. Opinion testimony about another's state of mind that is rationally based on a lay witness's perception is admissible. See TEX. R. EVID. 701; Ethicon, Inc. v. Martinez, 835 S.W.2d 826, 832 (Tex. App.-Austin 1992, writ denied); see also Owen v. State, 52 Tex. Crim. 65, 69, 105 S.W. 513, 515 (1907) [*23]  ("It is well settled that any ordinary observer of a person is competent to testify whether or not he manifested anger or hatred toward another."). Moreover, Mason's opinion that Thomas "went into an angry rage" is consistent with the facts contained in the accident report concerning the speed of Thomas's vehicle at the time of the accident. \n We also find no merit in Ramos's argument claiming Kramer's opinion is inadmissible because it is not a "reasonable" inference based on Thomas's medical records. We conclude that Kramer's opinion is not unreasonable, it has a factual basis, and it is not merely based on speculation or surmise. We overrule the conditional cross-points challenging Kramer's affidavit. \n  \n Duty \n Ramos and the Clinic bring conditional cross-points alleging the summary judgment should be affirmed because neither owed a duty to protect Mason from being injured by Thomas. 7   \n  [*24]  Ramos \n Ramos contends he owed no duty to protect Mason from the acts of Thomas. He argues that because he was not Thomas's doctor, he had no duty to control Thomas and he had no duty to prevent Thomas from injuring Mason. These arguments are without merit because they do not apply to the allegations in appellants' lawsuit. Appellants do not allege Ramos had a duty to control Thomas or that he owed any duty to a third party not his patient. They allege Ramos owed certain duties to Mason because she was his patient. The duty to act on a patient's behalf is triggered by the physician-patient relationship. See St. John v. Pope, 901 S.W.2d 420, 423 (Tex. 1995). Once such a relationship is established, the physician owes the patient a duty to treat the patient with the skills of a trained, competent professional, and a breach of that duty may give rise to a malpractice action.  Reynosa v. Huff, 21 S.W.3d 510, 513 (Tex. App.-San Antonio 2000, no pet.). \n Although a fact issue might exist concerning whether the physician-patient relationship was ever terminated and there are fact issues concerning what standard of care was applicable for Ramos's [*25]  care, the evidence is undisputed that Ramos was Mason's doctor. Because Ramos was Mason's doctor, he was not entitled to summary judgement based on the lack of owing any duty to her. We overrule Ramos's cross-point requesting summary judgment be affirmed on this basis. \n  \n The Clinic \n  \n In its motion for summary judgment, the Clinic argued it owed no duty to provide medical treatment to Mason because the Clinic is precluded by law from practicing medicine. See Clements v. Conard, 21 S.W.3d 514, 522-23 (Tex. App.-Amarillo 2000, pet. denied) (under Texas Medical Practices Act, clinic cannot practice medicine). The Clinic also argued it could not be held responsible for the negligence, if any, of Ramos because Ramos was not an employee of the Clinic. See Baptist Mem'l Hosp. Sys. v. Sampson, 969 S.W.2d 945, 947 (Tex. 1998) (hospital is ordinarily not liable for negligence of physician who is independent contractor). We agree that summary judgment in favor of the Clinic would be appropriate on the basis of duty for each of these theories of recovery. However, these are not the sole allegations of negligence against the Clinic. \n  \n Appellants'  [*26]  lawsuit alleges the Clinic was responsible for its own negligence in failing to have adequate policies and procedures. A hospital is under a duty to exercise reasonable care to safeguard the patient from any known or reasonably apprehensible danger and to exercise such reasonable care for her safety as her mental and physical condition, if known, may require.  Mounts v. St. David's Pavilion, 957 S.W.2d 661, 663 (Tex. App.-Austin 1997, no pet.); see also Tenet Health Ltd., 13 S.W.3d at 471 (discussing duties of care hospitals owe to patients independent of physicians' duties). These same duties would apply to the Clinic if Mason was, in fact, a patient of the Clinic. The Clinic does not deny that Mason was its patient. It does contend, however, that it owed no duty to Mason because it was not providing any services to Mason pursuant to any of the contracts existing between the Clinic and Cedars Hospital. We find the Clinic's argument without merit. One of the contracts at issue was entitled "Adult Christian Psychiatric Program Minirth Meier Services" for the rendition of psychotherapeutic services to the hospital's patients. Under that contract, the [*27]  Clinic was responsible for the development and implementation of the treatment program and was required to provide counseling and therapist personnel and services to patients such as Mason. We conclude that this constitutes some evidence that Mason was a patient of the Clinic and that the Clinic may owe Mason duties independent of those duties owed by Mason's doctors. \n Because the Clinic failed to sustain its summary judgment burden to negate its duty under each theory of recovery pleaded by appellants, the summary judgment cannot be sustained on the basis of lack of duty. We overrule the Clinic's cross-point. \n  \n Conclusion \n We sustain appellants' second issue. We reverse the summary judgments granted in favor of Ramos, the Clinic, Marx, and Cedars Hospital and remand those claims to the trial court for further proceedings. We affirm the summary judgment in favor of Meier under appellants' claims that he was negligent in treating or discharging Mason or Thomas. We reverse the summary judgment and remand to the trial court plaintiff's claims against Meier for liability based on respondeat superior and the failure to develop adequate policies and procedures for the Clinic.  \n We overrule [*28]  appellees' cross-points challenging appellants' summary judgment evidence and Ramos's and the Clinic's cross-points requesting the summary judgments be affirmed on the basis of lack of duty owed to Mason. Because of our disposition of these issues, it is unnecessary for us to address the parties' remaining issues. TEX. R. APP. P. 47.1. \n DAVID F. FARRIS \n JUSTICE, ASSIGNED  \n Dissent by: DAVID L. BRIDGES \n Dissent \n  \n  \n DISSENTING OPINION \n Dissenting Opinion By Justice Bridges \n I respectfully dissent. Because I conclude that, as a matter of law, appellees' actions did not proximately cause appellants' injuries, I would affirm the trial court's summary judgment. \n As discussed by the majority, proximate cause includes two elements: cause-in-fact and foreseeability. Doe v. Boys Clubs of Greater Dallas, Inc., 907 S.W.2d 472, 477 (Tex. 1995). These elements cannot be established by mere conjecture, guess, or speculation. Id.; McClure v. Allied Stores of Tex., Inc., 608 S.W.2d 901, 903 (Tex. 1980). Cause-in-fact means that the defendant's act or omission was a substantial factor in bringing about the injury which would not otherwise have occurred.  Doe, 907 S.W.2d at 477. [*29]  Cause-in-fact is not shown if the defendant's negligence did no more than furnish a condition that made the injury possible.  Union Pump Co. v. Allbritton, 898 S.W.2d 773, 776 (Tex. 1995). \n  \n The second element of proximate cause, foreseeability, requires that a person of ordinary intelligence should have anticipated the danger created by the negligent act or omission. Doe, 907 S.W.2d at 478. It is not necessary that the actor foresee the particular accident or injury which in fact occurs.  Trinity River Auth. v. Williams, 689 S.W.2d 883, 886 (Tex. 1985). Nor must he anticipate just how the injury will grow out of a particular dangerous situation.  Brown v. Edwards Transfer Co., 764 S.W.2d 220, 223-24 (Tex. 1988). All that is required is that the injury be of such a general character as might reasonably have been anticipated and that the injured party be so situated with relation to the wrongful act that injury might reasonably have been foreseen.  Id. at 224. \n It is important to note that Thomas and Mason were voluntarily admitted to the Clinic and Cedars Hospital. I conclude that appellees' release [*30]  of Thomas and Mason, even if negligent, did no more than furnish a condition which made their injuries possible, and the release was, therefore, not the cause-in-fact of Thomas' and Mason's injuries. See Union Pump, 898 S.W.2d at 776. Further, I cannot conclude that it was foreseeable that releasing Thomas and Mason and failing to prevent Cleveland's departure would result in an automobile accident. Following the majority's rationale, appellees would be liable for any harm to Thomas or Mason occurring outside appellees' facilities. While it is foreseeable that releasing a patient into the world outside a hospital exposes the patient to the risk that harm may befall her, it is not foreseeable that simply releasing a voluntarily-admitted patient will result in a car accident more than a day later. See Brown, 764 S.W.2d at 224. Accordingly, I would affirm the trial court's summary judgment in favor of appellees. See Nixon, 690 S.W.2d at 548-49. \n DAVID L. BRIDGES \n JUSTICE  \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 