Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n Defendant seller moved for rehearing after a trial court (Texas) judgment for plaintiff buyer in his suit for damages to his cattle herd from diseased cattle sold and delivered to him through the seller's fraud. \n Overview \n The seller argued that the buyer failed to show that his damages were proximately caused by the seller's fraud because the jury found part of his damages were caused by the condition of the buyer's premises, which harbored and spread the Bang's disease introduced by the seller's cattle. The court's answer was that the jury had determined the reasonable cash market value of the cows sold and delivered to the buyer by reason of their being infected at the time of delivery. Since the disease spread from the seller's cows to those the buyer already owned, the fact that his damages were contributed to by the condition of his premises was of no consequence. His premises and his cattle were free from disease until delivery of the infected cattle. The seller submitted a special issue on whether the seller's cows had Bang's disease and whether the buyer's cows were free from the disease. As this was evidentiary in determining the outcome, there was no error in not submitting it. The motion was overruled. According to the findings Bang's disease did not exist in the buyer's herd before he bought the seller's cows so all damage was proximately caused by the seller's fraud. \n Outcome \n The motion for rehearing was overruled. The court found there was no error in refusing to submit certain evidentiary issues to the jury. \n Opinion \n  \n  \n  [**1]   [*871]  On Motion for Rehearing.  \n In its Motion for Rehearing appellant seems to concede as an abstract proposition our holding that because of the fraud practiced on plaintiff by defendant, plaintiff owed no duty to defendant to exercise ordinary care to prevent or minimize damages resulting from the fraud.  The contention now urged is that not only did plaintiff fail to show that all of the damage suffered by him was proximately caused by defendant's fraud, but that the jury findings affirmatively show that part of the damage was not proximately caused by such fraud because of the findings that plaintiff's premises were so kept as to harbor Bang's disease, which proximately caused or contributed to the spread of the disease; and since there is no showing how much of the damage was proximately caused by the fraud and how much by the premises being kept so as to harbor Bang's disease, plaintiff could recover nothing and defendant was entitled to a judgment accordingly.  \n A complete answer to such contention is that the jury found that the reasonable cash market value of the cows sold and delivered by defendant to plaintiff by reason of their being infected with Bang's disease [**2]  at the time they were delivered was $1,750.  As pointed out in our original opinion on this finding and the other findings relating to the fraud, plaintiff was entitled to judgment for the difference between this sum and the price he paid defendant for such cows. This is so regardless of any damages he may have suffered because of the spread of the disease. The error pointed out to the trial court in defendant's motions for an instructed verdict, for judgment and for judgment non obstante veredicto and which is urged here is that plaintiff was not entitled to any judgment, not that the only judgment to which he was entitled was that above indicated.  Since in any event plaintiff was entitled to such judgment, the error assigned and now urged on Motion for Rehearing is without merit.  \n However, had appellant pointed out to the trial court that the only judgment which could be supported by the verdict was for the difference between the value of the infected cows purchased by plaintiff from defendant and the amount plaintiff paid for such cows, and had appellant urged the point here that the judgment rendered is erroneous, for this reason we think such contention could not prevail.  [**3]  It is elementary that there may be more than one proximate cause of damage.  The condition of plaintiff's premises could not proximately cause or contribute to the spread of the disease unless the disease existed in the herd. According to the findings Bang's disease did not exist in plaintiff's herd before he purchased the cows from defendant.  These cows transmitted and communicated the Bang's disease to the cows theretofore owned by plaintiff.  As we construe the findings, not a part but all of the damage suffered by plaintiff was proximately caused by the fraud practiced on him by defendant.  Appellant in its motion seems to place a similar construction on the findings.  It says: "The jury thus found that there were two causes of appellee's damages, one being a cause chargeable to the appellant and the other being the antecedent or concurrent actions of appellee himself for which the defendant was in no wise responsible."  \n Since the communication of the disease from the cows purchased from defendant to those then owned by plaintiff was a proximate cause of the damage suffered by plaintiff, the fact that such damages were also proximately caused or contributed to by the condition [**4]  of plaintiff's premises is of no consequence.  To illustrate: Let us suppose plaintiff had stored material in his barn and dairy buildings on his premises; that the buildings were in fact fire traps, being of highly inflammable character; that defendant intentionally lighted a match to the material and because of the nature of the buildings a conflagration ensued which destroyed all of the material, and that the fact that the buildings were highly inflammable proximately caused the conflagration to spread. It would be mere sophistry to contend that the defendant's act in applying the match did not proximately cause the conflagration and all the resulting damage.  The same is true here; defendant's fraud in selling plaintiff diseased  [*872]  cows proximately caused all of the damages he suffered.  We have carefully considered all of the authorities cited on this point in appellant's Motion.  It would serve no useful purpose to discuss them.  In our opinion all of them are distinguishable.  \n A more serious question is whether we were correct in our original opinion in holding that plaintiff owed no duty to exercise ordinary care to prevent or minimize damages resulting from defendant's [**5]  fraud.  A majority of the court adheres to this holding, relying principally on the language in the Zantzinger case.  However, should we be in error in this respect, the disposition of the case would be the same under our view that the defendant did not raise the point in the trial court that the judgment rendered was merely erroneous in this respect, but contended that he was entitled to judgment, that plaintiff take nothing, and such is his contention here.  The Chief Justice concurs in the disposition of the case but is of the opinion that the plaintiff did owe a duty to exercise ordinary care to avoid the consequences of defendant's wrong.  \n Appellant objects to the statement in our opinion that plaintiff had "assisted in operating and had operated dairy farms in Grayson County in Waco, and a 3000 acre ranch in Llano County."  \n The inaccuracy is based on plaintiff's testimony to effect that at Waco, together with other stock he bought and sold dairy stock. The statement is corrected in this respect.  Objection is also made to the statement that defendant "held out its herd to plaintiff as a top milk producing herd."  \n This statement is borne out by plaintiff's testimony.  Objection [**6]  is also made to the statement that "plaintiff bought 35 head from defendant, which when added to his present herd gave him a herd of 70 milch cows."  \n This statement is in accordance with plaintiff's testimony.  Appellant is correct in stating that it developed on cross-examination of plaintiff that he had bought 17 additional cows during the time he operated his dairy. Further objection is made to the statement that plaintiff testified: "that from his experience with his herd and the diseases of cattle in his opinion the cows that he bought from the defendant were infected with Bang's disease; that some of the cattle so bought were so infected when they were sold."  \n The statement is supported by the record referred to by appellant.  \n As indicated in our original opinion, special issue No. 15 inquiring whether the cows purchased by plaintiff from defendant transmitted and communicated Bang's disease to the cows already owned by plaintiff was a controlling issue and the questions as to whether or not defendant's cows so purchased had Bang's disease and whether or not plaintiff's cows owned by him at the time of purchase were free from Bang's disease were evidentiary in the determination [**7]  of this controlling issue.  The court did not err in refusing to submit these evidentiary issues.  \n We have carefully considered all of the points urged in appellant's lengthy motion, and find no merit in them.  \n The motion is respectfully overruled.   \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 