Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n Appellant patient challenged an order from the 162nd District Court, Dallas County (Texas), which granted summary judgment in favor of appellees, hospital and physician, in a medical malpractice action. \n Overview \n Appellant patient sued appellees, hospital and physician, for medical malpractice. Appellee physician moved for summary judgment, asserting that his conduct did not fail to conform to the applicable standard of care, and that his conduct was not the proximate cause of any injuries to appellant. He attached his own affidavit in support of the motion. Appellee physician also moved to strike appellant's response and its attached affidavits as untimely, which the trial court granted. The trial court granted summary judgment in favor of appellees. On appeal, appellant claimed that the trial court erred in granting summary judgment because material issues of fact were raised by the summary judgment evidence. On appeal, the court affirmed the summary judgment, finding that the summary judgment was proper because appellant's own affidavit in support of her response was only the improper opinion of a lay witness regarding the issue of causation, and the appellant's physician affidavit failed to establish that the affiant was licensed physician, or to address the issue of causation. \n Outcome \n The trial court's summary judgment in favor of appellees, hospital and physician, was affirmed, because appellant patient failed to raise a material issue of fact in opposing appellee physician's summary judgment motion. \n Judges: Before Justices Lagarde, Maloney, and Morris. Opinion By Justice Morris  \n Opinion by: JOSEPH B. MORRIS \n Opinion \n  \n  \n OPINION \n Opinion By Justice Morris \n Jackie Spratt appeals from two separate summary judgments granted in favor of Doctor's Hospital--Dallas and Dr. Donald Dubrow. In one point of error, appellant contends the trial court erred in granting summary judgment because genuine issues of material fact were raised by the summary judgment evidence. Concluding appellant's point of error has no merit, we affirm the trial court's judgment. \n  \n FACTUAL BACKGROUND \n This is a medical malpractice case. On or about February 19, 1991, Dr. Dubrow hospitalized appellant at Doctor's Hospital--Dallas for a bladder infection. Dr. Dubrow, a licensed physician specializing in internal medicine, had treated appellant in the past. Both the hospital and Dr. Dubrow were aware that appellant was allergic to penicillin. While hospitalized,  [*2]  Dr. Dubrow prescribed for appellant, and the hospital administered to her, a drug called Mefoxin. Mefoxin is contraindicated for penicillin-allergic patients. According to appellant, the use of this drug in her treatment prolonged her illness, caused additional medical problems to occur, and jeopardized her life. Appellant was discharged from the hospital on February 24, 1991. \n Appellant later sued the hospital and Dr. Dubrow. In her first amended original petition, appellant alleged acts of negligence and gross negligence against Dr. Dubrow. She further alleged any such acts by Dr. Dubrow were attributable to the hospital under the doctrine of respondeat superior. \n Both the hospital and Dr. Dubrow moved for summary judgment against appellant. In its motion for summary judgment, the hospital contended it was entitled to judgment because appellant did not have a cause of action against it, it was not negligent in its treatment of appellant, and no act or omission by it was the proximate cause of any injuries to appellant. Dr. Dubrow moved for summary judgment on the grounds his conduct did not deviate from the applicable standard of care and no act or omission on his part was the proximate [*3]  cause of any injuries to appellant. As summary judgment evidence, Dr. Dubrow submitted his own affidavit. The hospital also relied upon Dr. Dubrow's affidavit in support of its motion for summary judgment. \n Appellant filed a response to the hospital's and Dr. Dubrow's motions for summary judgment. In her response, appellant contended a material fact issue existed regarding whether Dr. Dubrow breached the applicable standard of care in providing her medical treatment. She also asserted a material fact issue existed regarding whether the hospital was liable because Dr. Dubrow was a member of the hospital's staff at the time he provided the medical treatment in question. Attached to appellant's response as summary judgment evidence were appellant's own affidavit and the affidavit of Dr. Neal Stout. \n On the day of the summary judgment hearing, Dr. Dubrow filed with the trial court written objections to appellant's response and her summary judgment evidence. 1  Dr. Dubrow specifically requested the trial court to strike the response and its attached evidence. In its written summary judgment order, the trial court sustained Dr. Dubrow's objections thereby consequently striking both appellant's [*4]  response and her summary judgment evidence. Although the trial court granted both defendants' motions for summary judgment in their entirety, the court did not state in its order the specific grounds on which it granted summary judgment. \n  \n DISCUSSION \n In her sole point of error, appellant contends the trial court erred in granting appellees' motions for summary judgment because issues of material fact were raised by the summary judgment evidence. With respect to the summary judgment in favor of Dr. Dubrow, appellant contends specifically [*5]  that material fact issues existed regarding whether Dr. Dubrow breached the applicable standard of care and whether such alleged breach was the proximate cause of her injuries. 2  Appellant does not assert that any specific issues of material fact were raised in connection with the summary judgment granted for Doctor's Hospital.  \n Summary judgment may be rendered only if the moving party presents competent summary judgment evidence establishing (1) there is no genuine issue with respect to any material fact and (2) he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. See TEX. R. CIV. P. 166a(c); Rodriguez v. Naylor Indus., Inc., 763 S.W.2d 411, 412 (Tex.  [*6]  1989). When the defendant moves for summary judgment, he must discharge the burden of either disproving at least one element of the plaintiff's cause of action or pleading and conclusively establishing each essential element of an affirmative defense, thereby rebutting the plaintiff's cause of action. See Anderson v. Snider, 808 S.W.2d 54, 55 (Tex. 1991) (per curiam); Swilley v. Hughes, 488 S.W.2d 64, 67 (Tex. 1972). Once the moving party establishes his right to summary judgment, the nonmovant should then respond by presenting to the trial court any genuine issue of material fact that would preclude summary judgment. See City of Houston v. Clear Creek Basin Auth., 589 S.W.2d 671, 678 (Tex. 1979). In deciding whether a genuine issue of material fact exists, this Court must take as true all evidence favorable to the nonmovant. See MMP, Ltd. v. Jones, 710 S.W.2d 59, 60 (Tex. 1986) (per curiam). Moreover, every reasonable inference must be indulged in favor of the nonmovant and any doubts resolved in that party's favor. See id. Because the trial court's summary judgment order in this case does not state the specific grounds for summary judgment, we may affirm the [*7]  trial court's judgment if any of the grounds advanced by Dr. Dubrow or the hospital are meritorious. See Bellair, Inc. v. Aviall of Texas, Inc., 819 S.W.2d 895, 899 (Tex. App.--Dallas 1991, writ denied). \n We first address whether the trial court erred in granting summary judgment in favor of Dr. Dubrow on appellant's medical malpractice action. The essential elements of a cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a legally cognizable duty requiring the defendant to conform to a certain standard of conduct for the protection of the plaintiff against an unreasonable risk, (2) the defendant's failure to conform to the required standard, (3) resulting in actual injury to the plaintiff, and (4) a reasonably close causal connection between the defendant's conduct and the plaintiff's resulting injury. See Cloys v. Turbin, 608 S.W.2d 697, 700 (Tex. Civ. App.--Dallas 1980, no writ). As grounds for summary judgment, Dr. Dubrow asserted his conduct did not fail to conform to the applicable standard of care and that his conduct was not the proximate cause of any injuries to appellant. In support of these grounds, Dr. Dubrow submitted his own affidavit. \n As this Court noted [*8]  in Duncan  v. Horning, 587 S.W.2d 471 (Tex. Civ. App.--Dallas 1979, no writ), a defendant physician's own affidavit in a medical malpractice suit is sufficient to establish his entitlement to summary judgment under rule 166a(c) if it sets out his qualifications, describes the services he performed for the plaintiff, states he acted in accordance with the standard of care prevalent in the county, specifically denies each of the allegations of negligence contained in the plaintiff's petition, and states the opinion is based upon a reasonable degree of probability that no act or omission on his part caused any damage to the plaintiff. See id. at 473. Dr. Dubrow's affidavit comported with the requirements of Duncan and rule 166a(c). As such, it negated the standard of care and proximate cause elements of appellant's malpractice action and conclusively established Dr. Dubrow's entitlement to summary judgment. \n To preclude summary judgment in favor of Dr. Dubrow, it was incumbent upon appellant to present to the trial court any genuine issue of material fact regarding the negated elements of her cause of action. See Clear Creek, 589 S.W.2d at 678; Garza v. Levin [*9]  , 769 S.W.2d 644, 645 (Tex. App.--Corpus Christi 1989, writ denied). In support of her contention that material fact issues existed regarding whether Dr. Dubrow breached the applicable standard of care and whether this alleged breach was the proximate cause of her injuries, appellant relied upon her own affidavit and the affidavit of Dr. Stout. The trial court, however, struck this evidence in sustaining Dr. Dubrow's objections. The effect of the trial court's action was to leave appellant with no controverting summary judgment evidence sufficient to create a material fact issue regarding either breach of the applicable standard of care or proximate cause. 3  But even if we consider the evidence in appellant's and Dr. Stout's affidavits, we conclude it is insufficient to create a material fact issue regarding whether Dr. Dubrow's conduct was the proximate cause of appellant's injuries. \n  [*10]  In her affidavit, appellant states, "While I was in the hospital, my condition became grave and life-threatening. I became jaundiced, my kidneys failed, my family was informed that dialysis might be necessary and they were told to prepare for my death. Once the Mefoxin was deleted from the medications administered to me, I recovered." Although appellant's statement appears to be directed at creating a material fact issue regarding proximate cause, testimony from a lay witness regarding proximate cause is without probative force in a medical malpractice action. See Tilotta v. Goodall, 752 S.W.2d 160, 163 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1988, writ denied); Duncan, 587 S.W.2d at 474. Thus, appellant's affidavit is insufficient to create a material fact issue regarding whether Dr. Dubrow's alleged acts or omissions were the proximate cause of her injuries. \n The same is true with respect to Dr. Stout's 4  affidavit. Dr. Stout's affidavit is devoid of any statement that there was a causal connection between the alleged acts or omissions by Dr. Dubrow and appellant's injuries. As such, the affidavit fails to raise a material fact issue regarding the proximate cause of appellant's [*11]  injuries.  See Garza, 769 S.W.2d at 646; Duncan, 587 S.W.2d at 474. Based upon the foregoing, we hold the trial court did not err in granting summary judgment for Dr. Dubrow. 5   \n  [*12]  We also conclude, albeit for different reasons, the trial court did not err in granting summary judgment in favor of Doctor's Hospital. Appellant's theory of liability regarding the hospital, as stated in her first amended original petition, was that the alleged acts or omissions by Dr. Dubrow were attributable to the hospital under the doctrine of respondeat superior. The hospital contended in its motion for summary judgment that no cause of action existed against it. Appellant again raised the issue of derivative liability in her response to the hospital's motion for summary judgment by contending a material fact issue existed regarding whether the hospital was liable because Dr. Dubrow was a member of the hospital's staff at the time he provided the medical treatment in question. We have concluded, however, that there was no material fact issue regarding whether Dr. Dubrow's alleged acts or omissions were the proximate cause of appellant's injuries. Because no liability existed with respect to Dr. Dubrow individually, it follows that the hospital could not be vicariously liable under the doctrine of respondeat superior for any of Dr. Dubrow's alleged acts or omissions.  [*13]  We overrule appellant's sole point of error. \n We affirm the trial court's judgment. \n JOSEPH B. MORRIS \n JUSTICE  \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 