Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n Appellants filed an appeal from a ruling entered in the 281st District Court, Harris County, Texas, which ruled in favor of appellee in a negligence and medical malpractice case. \n Overview \n Appellant patient sought treatment from appellee doctor for abdominal cramping and dysmenorrhea. Appellee recommended surgery to determine the problem. During surgery, appellee performed a total abdominal hysterectomy and removal of the fallopian tubes. Appellee noted the appendix was also covered in lesions and removed it. Appellant patient had not consented to this. Appellant and her husband sued appellee for performing an unnecessary hysterectomy, as well as negligently, falsely, and intentionally advising them that appellant patient had cancer of the uterus. A jury verdict ruled in favor of appellee. There was no evidence that the trial court abused its discretion or acted without reference to any guiding principles in refusing appellants' granulated issues and submitting the case on broad-form questions. To the contrary, the trial court did as controlling law required. \n Outcome \n The trial court's ruling was affirmed. The lower court did not abuse its discretion in refusing appellants' granulated issues and submitting the case to the jury on broad-form questions. \n Judges: Murry B. Cohen, Justice. Panel consists of Justices Cohen, Hedges, and Andell.   \n Opinion by: Murry B. Cohen \n Opinion \n  \n  \n This appeal is from a take-nothing verdict, following a jury trial, against Jodell and Thomas Stansel and in favor of Dr. Bahjat Rahman in a case of an allegedly unnecessary hysterectomy. The Stansels also alleged that Dr. Rahman negligently, falsely, and intentionally advised them that Ms. Stansel had cancer of the uterus, which had probably extended to her tubes and ovaries, frightening her into surgery in order to earn fees when he knew such statements were false. The jury unanimously answered "No" to questions regarding alleged medical negligence, fraud, and lack of informed consent by Dr. Rahman. We affirm. \n  \n Facts \n Ms. Stansel complained to Dr. Rahman of numerous symptoms, including abdominal cramping, heavy menstrual bleeding, and dysmenorrhea (painful period). She said she had previously been diagnosed with pelvic [*2]  inflammatory disease ("PID") and that another physician had recommended a hysterectomy. Dr. Rahman recommended hysteroscopy, D&C, laparoscopy, laser of the cervix, and possible laparotomy.  \n Ms. Stansel sought a second opinion from Dr. Don Shuwarger, who agreed with the plan for laparoscopy to determine whether she had PID. Dr. Shuwarger's records contained no mention that Ms. Stansel ever indicated she was told by Dr. Rahman that he suspected cancer. \n Dr. Rahman testified there was nothing in Ms. Stansel's history or examination that would have led him to believe she had cancer. His pre-operative diagnosis was PID or endometriosis. Because he could not confirm the diagnosis until a laparoscopy was performed, he prepared the patient for hysterectomy with the understanding, and Ms. Stansel's agreement, that the final decision would be made while she was under anesthesia. Dr. Rahman testified he did not tell Ms. Stansel that cancer was even a possible cause for her symptoms.  \n When Ms. Stansel was admitted to Sam Houston Memorial Hospital, Dr. Rahman wrote an order in the chart that the nurses were to get a consent form signed by the patient for hysteroscopy, D&C, laparoscopy, probable [*3]  laparotomy, total abdominal hysterectomy, and laser standby. The nurses did not fill out page two of the form, however, omitting the box for abdominal hysterectomy. Ms. Stansel, therefore, did not initial that section of the form. Nonetheless, Dr. Rahman testified, and the medical records indicate, that he thoroughly discussed the risks and complications of hysterectomy with Ms. Stansel. This discussion was documented in Dr. Rahman's admission note for the hospitalization for surgery. \n Dr. Rahman performed the hysteroscopy, D&C, and laparoscopy as diagnostic procedures. He made findings consistent with chronic PID. Based on these findings, he performed a total abdominal hysterectomy and removal of the fallopian tubes. During the course of the surgery, Dr. Rahman noted the appendix was also covered in lesions and removed it. This had not been previously discussed, and no consent form had been signed concerning removal of the appendix. \n Post-operatively, Dr. Rahman submitted the uterus and tubes to pathology for examination. Three gynecologists, Dr. Rahman, Dr. Busacco, and Dr. Conner, testified that the findings described by the pathologists were consistent with chronic PID and that [*4]  the pathology justified Dr. Rahman's decision to remove the uterus and tubes. \n Following the surgery, Ms. Stansel began having severe pelvic pain. She went to neurologists, gastroenterologists, and other gynecologists, some 35 physicians in all, none of whom ever identified a cause for her persistent pelvic pain. None of these physicians found any medical reason for the persistent pelvic pain or made any connection between the pain and the hysterectomy performed by Dr. Rahman. \n  \n Analysis \n In points of error one, four, and six, appellants contend the trial court abused its discretion by refusing appellants' proposed granulated issues on negligence and causation and by submitting one broad-form jury question on medical negligence and proximate cause. \n Rule 277 provides, "In all jury cases, the court shall, whenever feasible, submit the cause upon broad-form questions. The court shall submit such instructions and definitions as shall be proper to enable the jury to render a verdict." TEX. R. CIV. P. 277. Trial courts are now required to use broad-form questions "in any instance in which it is capable of being accomplished." Keetch v. Kroger, 845 S.W.2d 262, 266 (Tex. 1992). [*5]  Absent extraordinary circumstances, the trial court commits error if it refuses to submit a broad-form question and instead submits granulated issues to the jury.  H.E. Butt Grocery Co. v. Warner, 845 S.W.2d 258, 260 (Tex. 1992). \n The trial court here refused the granulated questions submitted by appellants and submitted a broad-form question on Dr. Rahman's negligence and proximate cause. Specifically, appellants claim it was error to refuse the issues as to 1) whether there was a medical necessity to remove Ms. Stansel's uterus, tubes, and appendix; 2) whether Dr. Rahman negligently removed a normal uterus, tubes, and appendix, performed an unnecessary D&C, and sutured the vaginal cuff; and 3) "multiple surgery" negligence, which asked if Ms. Stansel sustained any injury as a proximate cause of one or more of the surgeries involving the hysterectomy, removal of the fallopian tubes, appendectomy, D&C, laparotomy with removal of adhesions, exploratory laparoscopy, or hysterectomy. \n Appellants argue that the broad-form negligence question submitted by the court lacked any direction as to "just what negligence the jury was to decide" and their objection should have been [*6]  sustained, particularly since the question asked about the "occurrence in question." Citing Pool v. Ford Motor Co., appellants contend the case before the Court is not a "feasible" case for a single, broad-form negligence submission.  715 S.W.2d 629 (Tex. 1986). The problem, according to appellants' theory, is that "occurrence" is singular, while their theory of negligence involved multiple instances of negligence. We disagree.  \n The only recognized situation where broad-form submission may not be feasible is when the law on a liability issue is not settled.  Westgate, Ltd. v. State, 843 S.W.2d 448, 455 n.6 (Tex. 1992). Such a situation does not arise in a medical malpractice case because the law is well settled.  Knoll v. Neblett, 966 S.W.2d 622, 638 (Tex. App.--Houston [14th Dist.] 1998, writ denied). Several courts have determined that medical malpractice cases do not present extraordinary circumstances and do not warrant an exception to the rule requiring broad-form submission, no matter how many specific acts of negligence are alleged. See Crundwell v. Becker, 981 S.W.2d 880, 884 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.  [*7]  ] 1998, writ denied); Winkle v. Tullos, 917 S.W.2d 304, 312 (Tex. App.--Houston [14th Dist.] 1995, writ denied). \n In the present case, there is no evidence that the trial court abused its discretion or acted without reference to any guiding principles in refusing appellants' granulated issues and submitting the case on broad-form questions. To the contrary, the trial court did as Rule 277 and controlling case law required. \n We overrule the first, fourth, and sixth points of error. \n In points of error two, three, seven, and eight, appellants contend the trial court abused its discretion by refusing appellants' proposed issues and submitting a broad- form negligence question encompassing negligent misrepresentation and an informed consent question encompassing whether Dr. Rahman committed reckless, willful, or intentional misrepresentation. \n Medical malpractice cases are governed by the Texas Medical Liability and Insurance Improvement Act (MLIIA). TEX. REV. CIV. STAT. ANN.  art. 4590i (Vernon 1999). The Legislature's stated purpose was to alleviate a "medical malpractice insurance crisis" by consolidating all theories of liability for [*8]  health care practice into a negligence action based upon whether the health care provider met the accepted standards of medical practice. Id. at § 1.02. Thus, a claim for alleged misdiagnosis or mistreatment leading to an unnecessary surgery would be a negligence claim subject to MLIIA.  Patton v. Saint Joseph's Hosp., 887 S.W.2d 233, 247 (Tex. App. --Fort Worth 1994, writ denied). \n Appellants alleged and testified in trial that Dr. Rahman negligently or fraudulently misrepresented to Ms. Stansel that she had uterine cancer involving the fallopian tubes and possibly the ovaries and thereby induced the patient to have a hysterectomy. Based on that testimony, which was vehemently denied by Dr. Rahman, the trial court submitted the issue in three ways. Negligent diagnosis of cancer and communication of same to appellants was encompassed in the broad-form negligence question. The court, over Dr. Rahman's objection, also submitted a question on gross negligence. Finally, the court submitted a broad-form question on fraud that allowed the jury to consider all forms of willful, constructive, reckless, and intentional misrepresentation of Ms. Stansel's medical condition.  \n  [*9]  Appellants cite no case law standing for the proposition that a negligent diagnosis is not governed by MLIIA and must be submitted separately from a broad form negligence question. In fact, this Court has held that alleged negligent misrepresentations of the patient's medical condition were claims of misdiagnosis and were properly submitted in the broad-form negligence question.  Merckling v. Curtis, 911 S.W.2d 759, 772 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1995, writ denied). The trial court did not err in refusing the separate issue of negligent misrepresentation because it was subsumed in the broad-form negligence question. \n The definition of actionable fraud encompasses not only intentional deception, but also opinions made with purported special knowledge of future events or with recklessness as to the truth or falsity of past or present facts.  Trenholm v. Ratcliff, 646 S.W.2d 927, 930 (Tex. 1983). Contrary to appellants' assertion, there is no difference between intentional misrepresentation and actionable fraud. See Darwin v. Fugit, 914 S.W.2d 621, 627 (Tex. App.--Fort Worth 1995, writ denied). The definition of fraud the trial [*10]  court submitted is that contained in the case law and in the Texas Pattern Jury Charge. See Johnson & Higgins of Texas, Inc. v. Kenneco Energy, Inc., 962 S.W.2d 507, 524 (Tex. 1998); STATE BAR OF TEXAS, TEXAS PATTERN JURY CHARGES PJC105.01 and definitions 105.02 and 105.021A and D. The trial court did not err in refusing appellants' issues because intentional, willful and reckless misrepresentation were submitted within the fraud question.  \n In a medical malpractice case, alleged misrepresentations during the physician's disclosure of the risks and hazards of a medical procedure must be submitted to the jury as an issue of alleged failure to obtain informed consent. TEX. REV. CIV. STAT. ANN.  art. 4590i, §§ 6.01-.07; Marks-Brown v. Rogg, 928 S.W.2d 304, 306 (Tex. App.--Houston [14th Dist.] 1996, writ denied). Even though a separate action for fraud may be maintained under certain facts, article 4590i is the only valid theory of recovery for allegations of misrepresenting the risks and hazards of surgery. Crundwell, 981 S.W.2d at 883-84. \n In Crundwell, the court concluded that "the issue of whether [*11]  she would have agreed to the surgery had she not believed she had cancer is separate and distinct from the issue of whether she was fully informed of the risks attendant to having surgery." Crundwell, 981 S.W.2d at 884. Thus, the issue of misrepresentation in advising the patient of the risks and hazards of surgery was properly submitted under the informed consent question. \n We overrule points of error two, three, seven, and eight.  \n In the fifth and ninth points of error, appellants contend the trial court abused its discretion by submitting one broad-form "informed consent" question, refusing appellants' issues relating to the failure to obtain Mrs. Stansel's written informed consent for numerous other procedures, and overruling appellants' objections to the informed consent issues. \n Specifically, appellants complain the trial court committed error by submitting only one informed consent question, a question listing the risks of total abdominal hysterectomy to the exclusion of other procedures. The other procedures were 1) removal of fallopian tubes; 2) appendectomy; 3) D&C; 4) laparotomy with lysis of adhesions; 5) laparoscopy; and 6) hysteroscopy. A party is entitled to a jury question [*12]  if the issue is raised by the pleadings and the evidence. TEX. R. CIV. P. 278. \n To prevail on a claim of informed consent, a patient must prove not only a failure to be informed of all relevant risks, but she must also prove that this failure was the proximate cause of her injuries.  McKinley v. Stripling, 763 S.W.2d 407, 409-410 (Tex. 1989). Proof of causation in medical malpractice cases requires expert testimony.  Hart v. Van Zandt, 399 S.W.2d 791, 792 (Tex. 1965). Therefore, to raise a fact issue worthy of submission of informed consent to a jury, the patient must present an expert who states the patient, in reasonable medical probability, suffered the injury warned of in the undisclosed risk.  Greene v. Thiet, 846 S.W.2d 26, 33-35 (Tex. App.--San Antonio 1992, writ denied). Proximate cause is a necessary element of informed consent because failure to include it amounts to imposition of strict liability on the physician.  Id. at 35. \n In the present case, appellants were not entitled to submission of informed consent issues on any procedures other than hysterectomy because they did not introduce any admissible expert [*13]  evidence testimony proving that any undisclosed risk of these procedures caused Mrs. Stansel harm. See Greene, 846 S.W.2d at 33-35. A careful examination of the expert testimony in this case reveals that Dr. Edward Kirshen was the only expert who testified that any allegedly undisclosed risks caused harm to the patient. In his opinion, the only injuries proximately caused by Dr. Rahman's surgery were due to the hysterectomy. Neither he, nor any other expert, offered any admissible opinion testimony that any procedure other than hysterectomy proximately caused any harm to Ms. Stansel. Therefore, it was not an abuse of discretion for the trial court to deny the requested issues on the other procedures. \n Appellants, in point of error nine, complain the trial court abused its discretion by instructing the jury that Dr. Rahman could overcome the presumption of negligence by disclosing risks in a manner other than a written consent form. The issue of informed consent is governed by the MLIIA. TEX. REV. CIV. STAT. ANN.  art. 4590i, §§ 6.01-.08 (Vernon 1999). The MLIIA created the Texas Medical Disclosure Panel, which determines what particular risks and hazards [*14]  must be disclosed for certain designated List A procedures and what procedures require no disclosure. \n If the procedure is on List A and a written consent in statutory form is not signed by the patient, the MLIIA creates a rebuttable presumption that the physician was negligent in failing to obtain informed consent. TEX. REV. CIV. STAT. ANN.  art. 4590i, § 6.07(a)(2). This presumption must be part of the jury charge. Id. The presumption may be overcome if the physician demonstrates that disclosure was made in some other manner, such as oral disclosure. See STATE BAR OF TEXAS, TEXAS PATTERN JURY CHARGE PJC 51.13. \n The general rule is that a presumption may be rebutted by introducing evidence that is contrary to the presumed issue.  Technical Chem. Co. v. Jacobs, 480 S.W.2d 602, 606 (Tex. 1972). When any type of contrary evidence has been produced, the issue is then ripe for submission to the jury.  General Motors Corp. v. Saenz on Behalf of Saenz, 873 S.W.2d 353, 359 (Tex. 1993). In the present case, Dr. Rahman rebutted the presumption of negligence by offering his own testimony and his history and physical from [*15]  Sam Houston Memorial Hospital outlining his discussion of the relevant risks of hysterectomy surgery. After he created the necessary fact issue, the trial court properly submitted Texas Pattern Jury Charge 51.13. \n We overrule the fifth and ninth points of error.  \n In points of error ten and eleven, appellants contend the jury's finding that Dr. Rahman was not negligent and did not proximately cause injury. \n To prevail on a challenge to the legal sufficiency of the evidence, the party with the burden of proof must show that the jury's failure to find in its favor was not supported by any evidence and that a finding in its favor was established by the evidence as a matter of law.  Merkling, 911 S.W.2d at 763. When asked to review the factual sufficiency of the evidence, the court of appeals must again consider and weigh all the evidence and set aside the jury's verdict only if that finding is so weak and so against the weight and preponderance of the evidence that it is clearly wrong and unjust. Id. \n  \n Appellants' negligence allegations consisted of claims that Dr. Rahman: \n 1. did an inadequate preoperative history and assessment of the patient; \n 2. negligently [*16]  misdiagnosed Ms. Stansel with PID; \n 3. negligently misdiagnosed and misrepresented to Ms. Stansel that she had uterine cancer; \n 4. improperly sutured the vaginal cuff during surgery; and \n 5. removed the appendix without consent. \n The legal sufficiency challenge as to each of these allegations fails because there is substantial evidence in the record to support the jury's finding that Dr. Rahman was not negligent. Three experts, Dr. Conner, Dr. Busacco, and Dr. Rahman, testified that Dr. Rahman complied with every applicable standard of care. Those three physicians expressed the medical opinion that Ms. Stansel had chronic PID and this justified the surgery. Even appellants' expert, Dr. Kirshen, admitted that hysterectomy with removal of the tubes was an appropriate treatment for chronic PID. \n Dr. Busacco testified that Dr. Rahman complied with the applicable standard of care in the treatment of Ms. Stansel. The testimony included his opinion that surgical findings and pathology confirmed that appellant did, in fact, have chronic PID. Therefore, Dr. Rahman's preoperative assessment and plan were appropriate. Dr. Busacco opined that those circumstances justified the hysterectomy [*17]  surgery. He testified that inclusion cysts can form along the vaginal cuff suture line after surgery and that their formation was no indication that the cuff was improperly sewn by Dr. Rahman. Finally, Dr. Busacco testified that removal of the appendix, when bound down with lesions as it was in Ms. Stansel's case, is appropriate and well within the standard of care. \n On the issue of negligent misrepresentation, Dr. Rahman also presented substantial evidence. Dr. Rahman testified, denying he told Ms. Stansel she had cancer. Dr. Rahman's medical records do not reflect that he ever considered cancer a possibility or told her she had it. The medical records of more than thirty physicians who evaluated Ms. Stansel following Dr. Rahman's care showed no evidence that Ms. Stansel ever related a prior diagnosis of cancer when asked about her history. \n Dr. Giammarco, the physician who saw Ms. Stansel nine days after the hysterectomy, testified she told him the surgery was for pelvic pain. Dr. Busacco testified he could not relate Ms. Stansel's persistent pelvic pain to Dr. Rahman's surgery. Thus, appellants' challenge to the legal sufficiency of the evidence fails.  \n The record and evidence [*18]  show that every material fact supporting appellants' allegations was disputed and challenged by contrary evidence. The jury simply chose to believe Dr. Rahman's version. The finding was not against the great weight of the evidence. Thus, appellants' factual sufficiency challenge must fail. \n We overrule the tenth and eleventh points of error. \n In points of error twelve and thirteen, appellants contend the evidence regarding the negative jury finding of fraud is legally and factually insufficient. \n There is substantial evidence in support of Dr. Rahman's position that he never told the patient she had cancer. Dr. Rahman testified that there was nothing in Ms. Stansel's history or his examination that would lead him to believe she had cancer. He further testified he never entertained the thought of cancer in his diagnostic process and did not tell her that cancer was even a possible cause of her symptoms. \n Dr. Dennis Giammarco, the doctor to which Ms. Stansel went just nine days after her surgery, testified Ms. Stansel never told him that Dr. Rahman had ever suspected cancer or given cancer as the reason for performing surgery. To the contrary, Dr. Giammarco testified Ms. Stansel told [*19]  him the hysterectomy was done for severe cramping and menses. Dr. Everton Edmonson, a neurologist, testified that Ms. Stansel told him she had had the hysterectomy for abdominal pain, pelvic pain, and irregular menses. \n Even assuming appellants' allegation that Dr. Rahman fabricated his records was true, there was substantial evidence from other health care providers to corroborate Dr. Rahman's position. There is no mention in any of the Sam Houston Memorial Hospital records that Dr. Rahman suspected cancer. The admission data note written by the nurse before surgery says the patient indicated she was hospitalized for "very painful period" of several years duration. \n Two expert witnesses, Dr. Bradley Busacco and Dr. Stanley Conner, both testified they had studied all relevant medical records of Ms. Stansel, including those of some 35 doctors who saw her after Dr. Rahman, and found no mention that the patient ever indicated she was told by Dr. Rahman that he suspected cancer. Those records include records from M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, where appellant was sent after Dr. Giammarco could find no cause of her persistent pelvic pain. The M.D. Anderson records show no evidence Ms. Stansel [*20]  advised any health care provider or physician of a diagnosis, or even a suspicion, of cancer. \n Finally, Dr. Rahman introduced into evidence statements written by Ms. Stansel herself, describing her own medical condition. In her medical chronology of care, she discussed each medical problem for which she was treated by each physician listed. Nowhere in either document did she state that Dr. Rahman had diagnosed her with cancer or even suspected it. She stated, consistent with Dr. Rahman's records, that he treated her for lower pelvic pain and told her she had chronic PID. \n Based on this evidence, the factual and legal sufficiency points of error must fail. The challenge to the legal sufficiency fails because appellants have failed to show that the jury's failure to find in their favor is unsupported by evidence. The factual sufficiency challenge fails because the jury's verdict was not against the great weight of the evidence. \n We overrule the twelfth and thirteenth points of error. \n In appellants' fourteenth and fifteenth points of error, they contend the negative jury finding on the "informed consent" issue is supported by legally and factually insufficient evidence. \n Ms. Stansel,  [*21]  when she was admitted to Sam Houston Memorial Hospital, did not initial the section of the consent form confirming that Dr. Rahman had disclosed the risks of abdominal hysterectomy. The jury unanimously found that Dr. Rahman was not negligent, despite a jury question containing the presumption he was negligent.  \n Dr. Rahman testified, and the medical records indicate, that he thoroughly discussed the risks and complications of abdominal hysterectomy with Ms. Stansel. This discussion was documented in Dr. Rahman's admission note for the hospitalization for surgery. He advised Ms. Stansel that the risks included bladder perforation, bowel perforation, injury to the ureter, vascular injury requiring laparotomy and/or blood transfusion, post-operative adhesions, post-operative infection, and the risk of sciatic nerve palsy and foot drop due to either lithotomy position and/or injection. It was undisputed at trial that those risks include the List A required disclosures as well as others that are not required.  \n According to Dr. Rahman's testimony, he thus fully disclosed all risks required to be disclosed by the Texas Medical Disclosure Panel. Ms. Stansel denied that these warnings were [*22]  ever made to her. Dr. Rahman points out, however, that this is an issue on which the jury was in the position to judge the credibility of the witnesses in the face of conflicting testimony and evidence. \n Dr. Rahman cites instances of Ms. Stansel's credibility being impeached on a number of points. For example, Dr. Rahman posits that her credibility was damaged by the testimony of Dr. Giammarco. Ms. Stansel testified that Dr. Giammarco, on his first examination, told her, "Oh my God. Who did this to you?" and went on to say he hoped he never heard Dr. Rahman's name again. Dr. Giammarco's records, however, describe only a minor bruising of the skin after surgery and indicate that the incision was healing nicely. Dr. Giammarco wrote in the chart that Ms. Stansel really should contact Dr. Rahman for a follow-up after surgery. \n Because there is evidence of disclosure of risks in a manner other than a written consent form, both legal and factual insufficiency challenges fail on the issue of informed consent. The challenge to the legal sufficiency fails because appellants have failed to show that the jury's failure to find in their favor is unsupported by evidence. The factual sufficiency [*23]  challenge fails because the jury's verdict was not against the great weight of the evidence. \n We overrule the fourteenth and fifteenth points of error. \n We affirm the judgment. \n Murry B. Cohen \n Justice \n Panel consists of Justices Cohen, Hedges, and Andell.   \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 