Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n Petitioners, parent as next friend of decedent and minor children plus survivors on behalf of other decedent's estate, challenged a judgment of the Court of Appeals, Dallas County (Texas), Fifth District, that affirmed a summary judgment from the trial court in favor of respondents, City of Mesquite, Texas, and four police officers, that the respondents police officers' actions could not constitute a proximate cause of a fatal pursuit accident. \n Overview \n Petitioners, parent as next friend of decedent and minor children and survivors on behalf of other decedent's estate, sued respondents, City of Mesquite, Texas, and police officers for negligence, gross negligence, and violations of their civil rights under 42 U.S.C.S. § 1983 (1982). The court reversed the court of appeals judgment that affirmed the trial court and remanded the cause as to the two respondent police officers instituting the pursuit and the respondent city. The summary judgment evidence raised the fact issue of whether the decision to pursue, under the facts and circumstances, was a proximate cause of the accident. The court affirmed the court of appeals judgment that affirmed the trial court summary judgment for the two respondent officers who responded to the radio call for assistance. The court ruled that Tex. Rev. Civ. Stat. Ann. art. 6701d, §§ 24, 74 (1989) neither excepted police officers from the legal standards for proximate cause nor shielded them officers from liability for accidents in pursuit. The court ruled that the qualified immunity doctrine of § 1983 was subject to limitations when the police activity created a danger to citizens. \n Outcome \n The court reversed summary judgment for respondents, City of Mesquite, Texas, and the two police officers that initiated the pursuit because the respondent police officers' actions could have constituted a proximate cause of the fatal pursuit accident. The court affirmed summary judgment in favor of the other two other police officers. \n Counsel: Moore, Jr., Mr. Edward H., Law Offices of Windle Turley, P.C., Dallas, Texas, Zimmer, Ms. Rita M., Law Offices of Windle Turley, P.C., Dallas, Texas, Countiss, Mr. Richard N., Burrow and Williams, Houston, Texas, for Petitioner. \n Wright, III, Mr. Edwin E., Stradley, Schmidt, Stephens & Wright, Dallas, Texas, Wren, Mr. Ronald D., Stradley, Schmidt & Wright, Dallas, Texas, for Respondent.   \n Judges: C. L. Ray, Justice. Concurring opinion by Justice Raul A. Gonzalez. Concurring opinion by Justice Lloyd Doggett. Dissenting opinion by Justice Eugene A. Cook. Justice Hecht not sitting.   \n Opinion by: RAY  \n Opinion \n  \n  \n  \n OPINION \n The issue in this case is whether police officers are insulated from liability for their decision to engage in a high-speed chase when the pursued vehicle collides with a third party, no matter how much danger the chase poses to others using the highway. The trial court rendered summary judgment for the city and the four police officers involved in the chase. With one justice dissenting, the court of appeals affirmed, holding that as a matter [*2]  of law the police officers' actions could not constitute a proximate cause of the accident.  764 S.W.2d 576. We reverse and remand as to the two officers instituting the pursuit and the city, because the summary judgment evidence raised a fact issue whether the decision to pursue, under the facts and circumstances, was a proximate cause of the accident. We affirm the summary judgment for the two officers who merely responded to the radio call for assistance. \n While working off-duty as late-night security guards at a truckstop, Mesquite police officers Vestal Ashby and Johnny McClure saw Stephen Adkins driving a vehicle (a "Z-28") in the back lot of the truckstop. Eric Lovell Wilson and Evelyn Anne Vestal were also in the car. Activity around the car made Ashby and McClure suspicious that the occupants were involved in prostitution. They approached Adkins' car and asked for his identification. After Adkins produced it, Ashby and McClure instructed Adkins to drive to the front lot of the truckstop and to wait there until the officers had checked his identification. \n Adkins drove to the front lot but instead of stopping accelerated into the street. Ashby and McClure immediately pursued [*3]  Adkins and also radioed the Mesquite Police Department. Officers Jim Duckworth and Sam McDonald heard the radio call and proceeded toward the scene. \n Fleeing at a high rate of speed, Adkins went the wrong way onto a one-way highway access road. Ashby and McClure chased Adkins, also going the wrong way down the access road. Duckworth and McDonald entered the access road a mile or so further up the street going the correct direction. Their stated intention was to cut off Adkins from going the wrong way. The two sets of police cars were converging on Adkins from different directions. \n Cresting a hill, Adkins crashed head-on into Brenda Travis' car, killing Leonel Lozano and injuring Travis and other passengers. Summary judgment evidence indicated that the whole chase and collision occurred in less than two minutes. While it is unclear whether both police vehicles had their sirens on, this evidence shows that at least the Duckworth and McDonald police car siren was sounding. \n Travis, Lozano's survivors and the passengers sued the four police officers and the city of Mesquite, alleging negligence, gross negligence, and violations of their civil rights under 42 U.S.C. § 1983 (1982) ["Section [*4]  1983"]. Plaintiffs also sued Adkins and his two passengers for negligence and gross negligence (and other grounds).  The trial court granted a partial summary judgment requested by the police officers and the city disposing of the Section 1983 causes of action, but denied summary judgment as to the other claims. Those defendants then filed a Motion to Reconsider and Supplement Defendants' First Amended Motion, asserting as new grounds for summary judgment on the remaining claims (1) the lack of proximate cause as a matter of law, based on Dent v. City of Dallas, 729 S.W.2d 114 (Tex. App. - Dallas 1986, writ ref'd n.r.e.), and (2) the impossibility of respondeat superior liability of the City of Mesquite absent individual liability on the part of the police officers. After reconsideration, the trial court granted final summary judgment in favor of the City of Mesquite and the police officers, and severed plaintiffs' causes of action against them from plaintiffs' causes of action against Adkins and his two passengers. \n Included in the summary judgment evidence were the depositions of Officers McDonald, Duckworth, Ashby and McClure. Plaintiffs pointed out portions of these depositions [*5]  to raise fact issues precluding summary judgment. Ashby's deposition includes the following testimony: \n Q. And you knew at the time that you and Officer McClure began this chase that injuries as a result of wrecks were a possible result of pursuit situations, right? \n A. Yes, sir. \n * * * \n Q. And you knew that once you all headed east on the service road, that either your car or the Z-28 could possibly become involved in a head-on collision, right? \n A. That's correct. \n The depositions of each of the other three officers include similar testimony, which we set forth in the margin. 1  Notwithstanding this summary judgment evidence, a majority of the court of appeals panel concluded that as a matter of law the police officers' decisions both to initiate and continue chase, under the circumstances presented, could not have been a proximate cause of the collision. We hold the court of appeals misapplied the proximate cause doctrine. \n  [*6]  The two elements of proximate cause are cause in fact and foreseeability.  City of Gladewater v. Pike, 727 S.W.2d 514, 517 (Tex. 1987). "Cause in fact" means that the act or omission was a substantial factor in bringing about the injury, and without it harm would not have occurred. Id.; Kerby v. Abilene Christian College, 503 S.W.2d 526, 528 (Tex. 1973). The summarized and quoted summary judgment evidence raises the inference that Adkins drove down the access road at an excessive speed because of the police decision to give chase. There was summary judgment evidence that the conduct of the police officers was a cause in fact of the accident in question, and of the injuries for which plaintiffs seek recovery. \n "Foreseeability" means that the actor, as a person of ordinary intelligence, should have anticipated the dangers that his negligent act created for others.  Nixon v. Mr. Property Management Co., 690 S.W.2d 546, 549-50 (Tex. 1985); Missouri Pac. RR. Co. v. American Statesman, 552 S.W.2d 99, 103 (Tex. 1977). Foreseeability does not require that a person anticipate the precise manner in which injury will occur once he has created a dangerous situation through [*7]  his negligence.  Brown v. Edwards Transfer Co., 764 S.W.2d 220, 222 (Tex. 1988); El Chico Corp. v. Poole, 732 S.W.2d 306, 313 (Tex. 1987). Although the criminal conduct of a third party may be a superseding cause which relieves the negligent actor from liability, the actor's negligence is not superseded and will not be excused when the criminal conduct is a foreseeable result of such negligence.  Poole, 732 S.W.2d at 314; Nixon, 690 S.W.2d at 550; RESTATEMENT (SECOND) OF TORTS § 448 (1965). There can be concurrent proximate causes of an accident. All persons whose negligent conduct contributes to the injury, proximately causing the injury, are liable.  Poole, 732 S.W.2d at 313; Strakos v. Gehring, 360 S.W.2d 787, 789 (Tex. 1962); McAfee v. Travis Gas Corp., 137 Tex. 314, 323, 153 S.W.2d 442, 447 (1941). When the intervening illegal negligent act is foreseeable, it does not negate the continuing proximate causation and consequent liability of the initial actor.  Nixon, 690 S.W.2d at 550.  \n We recognize that police officers must make their decisions about pursuing a fleeing suspect rapidly while under pressure, but we have concluded that there is [*8]  no special statutory provision excepting police officers from the recited legal standards for proximate cause. Police officers must balance the risk to the public with their duty to enforce the law to choose an appropriate course of conduct. Public safety should not be thrown to the winds in the heat of the chase. \n Our state legislature has enacted at least two statutes applying to police cars as emergency vehicles stating the driver is not relieved of "the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons [using the highway]." 2  [*9]  The well-reasoned dissent in the court of appeals correctly concluded that the policy embodied in those statutes does not shield police officers from liability for automobile accidents caused by the pursuit. Under similar statutory schemes and facts involving high-speed police pursuits in which the pursued vehicle injures innocent third parties, the courts of other jurisdictions have rejected the "no duty" and "no proximate cause as a matter of law" rationales of older cases which insulated police from liability. 3  We regard these as the better reasoned cases. \n The decision to initiate or continue pursuit may be negligent when the heightened risk of injury to third parties is unreasonable in relation to the interest in apprehending suspects.  Smith v. City of West Point, 475 So. 2d 816, 818 (Miss. 1985); Oberkramer v. City of Ellisville, [*10]  650 S.W.2d 286, 292-93 (Mo. App. 1983). We agree with the Supreme Court of Connecticut's statement, in a case involving police officers' conduct in maintaining a police pursuit at high speeds in the wrong direction on a busy one-way street, to apprehend suspects thought to be too young to have drivers' licenses: \n  \n The intervention of negligent or even reckless behavior by the driver of the car whom the police pursues does not, under the emergent majority view, require the conclusion that there is a lack of proximate cause between police negligence and an innocent victim's injuries. \n  \n Tetro v. Town of Stratford, 189 Conn. 601, 604, 458 A.2d 5, 8 (1983). Fact issues were raised precluding summary judgment as to Ashby, McClure, and the City of Mesquite. \n The evidence establishes that Officers McDonald and Duckworth did no more than respond to a call for assistance. They did not participate in the decision to institute the chase nor to continue the pursuit once Adkins headed down the access road in the wrong direction. We accordingly affirm the summary judgment in their favor. \n Petitioners have further sought relief against the Section 1983 rulings by the trial court. Because [*11]  the Section 1983 summary judgments were rendered before further development and clarification of federal law, we reverse and remand them as well, although the status of the federal cases is still far from clear. We must divide our discussion according to the individual police officers and the city. \n The liability of the individual officers depends upon a qualified immunity analysis. The Supreme Court has held that liability under Section 1983 may be predicated on "deliberate indifference to the constitutional rights of persons with whom the police come into contact," and has discussed the standard in terms of a "deliberate" or "conscious" choice to expose citizens to a likely invasion of constitutional rights, but has nevertheless reserved for future decision the absolute minimum "degree of default" necessary for liability.  City of Canton v. Harris, 109 S.Ct. 1197, 1204 (1989) (emphasis in original). The Court has held that "mere negligence" is insufficient for liability.  Daniels v. Williams, 474 U.S. 327, 330-32, 106 S.Ct. 662, 664-65, 88 L.Ed.2d 662 (1986); Davidson v. Cannon, 474 U.S. 344, 347, 106 S.Ct. 668, 670, 88 L.Ed.2d 677 (1986). The Court has further held [*12]  that police officers are entitled to a qualified "good faith" immunity under Section 1983 when a reasonable police officer in a similar position could have reasonably believed that his actions were lawful.  Anderson v. Creighton, 107 S.Ct. 3034, 3038-39, 97 L.Ed.2d 523 (1987); Davis v. Scherer, 468 U.S. 183, 194, 104 S.Ct. 3012, 3019, 82 L.Ed.2d 139, reh'g denied, 468 U.S. 1226, 105 S.Ct. 26, 82 L.Ed.2d 919 (1984). \n While the trial court's grant of summary judgment on the "mere negligence" and qualified immunity grounds was reasonable under the federal cases decided and available when the court rendered the judgment, subsequent federal decisions suggest that fact issues exist whether Ashby and McClure's conduct constitutes "deliberate indifference." In particular, in Wood v. Ostrander, 879 F.2d 583 (9th Cir. 1989), cert. denied, 59 U.S.L.W. 3318 (October 30, 1990), the Ninth Circuit reversed a summary judgment in favor of a police officer under facts reasonably analogous to the factual issues present here. In Wood, for summary judgment purposes, the facts taken favorably to the nonmovant were that police had arrested a Tacoma, Washington woman's date for [*13]  driving while intoxicated and impounded his car, leaving her stranded in a high crime area, where she was subsequently raped. The court held that the police officer could be held liable for displaying "deliberate indifference" to the safety of a citizen. In particular, for applying a recklessness or grossly negligent standard, the court distinguished cases on the basis of whether the state official's action itself created the danger.  Wood, 879 F.2d at 587 n.3. The court held that the constitutional right invaded was "Wood's interest in personal security under the fourteenth amendment." Id. at 588. The court distinguished between substantive due process rights and procedural due process rights, limiting certain immunity doctrines to procedural rights deprivations.  Id. at 589. 4  The court held that decisions antedating the incident in question, including White v. Rochford, 592 F.2d 381 (7th Cir. 1979), served to put law enforcement officers on notice that conduct such as that alleged is unconstitutional, and therefore will defeat the officer's claim of qualified immunity. Id. at 590-91. Further, the qualified immunity doctrine is subject to limitations when the police [*14]  activity creates the danger to the specific citizen involved. Id. at 590. \n Since the Supreme Court has denied certiorari in Wood, despite a vigorous dissent and apparent disagreement within the Ninth Circuit, we defer to the decision. Further, under the principles and analysis of the Wood opinion, the summary judgment evidence fails to establish as a matter of law that officers Ashby and McClure were qualifiedly immune or that their degree of fault was insufficient for liability. We have concluded that the summary judgment as to them for the alleged Section 1983 causes of action must be reversed.  [*15]  In making this holding, we do not preclude the possibility of a subsequent partial summary judgment as to the Section 1983 allegations based upon either further summary judgment evidence or subsequent clarifications of federal law. \n Our analysis of potential liability for the City of Mesquite under Section 1983 must follow a different course. Ordinary principles of vicarious liability through respondeat superior do not apply to alleged violations under Section 1983, and a city is not liable unless a municipal "policy" or "custom" is the moving force behind the constitutional violation.  Monell v. New York Dept. of Social Services, 436 U.S. 658, 694, 98 S.Ct. 2018, 2037, 56 L.Ed.2d 611 (1978). The policy or custom may be a failure to train or an inadequate police policy if the situation that is or should be addressed by the training or policy is likely to occur and the deprivation of persons' constitutional rights are substantially certain to result; but "the inadequacy of police training may serve as the basis for § 1983 liability only where the failure to train amounts to deliberate indifference to the rights of persons with whom the police come into contact." City of  [*16]   Canton v. Harris, 109 S.Ct. at 1203-04. The specific example given by the Supreme Court as requiring training and policies was the use of deadly force: \n  \n For example, city policy makers know to a moral certainty that their police officers will be required to arrest fleeing felons. The city has armed its officers with firearms, in part to allow them to accomplish this task. Thus, the need to train officers in the constitutional limitations on the use of deadly force (see Tennessee v. Garner, 471 U.S. 1 (1985)), can be said to be "so obvious," that failure to do so could properly be characterized as "deliberate indifference" to constitutional rights. \n Id. at 1205 n.10. \n It seems equally clear that police will be faced with high-speed pursuit situations for fleeing suspects. The dissenting justice in the court of appeals noted the "prevalence and gravity of this situation," quoting a Survey by Physicians for Automotive Safety reported to the American Medical Association annual convention, June, 1968: \n  \n More than 500 Americans die and over 1,000 sustain major injuries each year as a result of rapid police pursuit of lawbreakers, most of whom are guilty of only minor [*17]  traffic offenses . . . one pursuit in five leads to a traffic fatality [and] in only one percent of the cases was someone in the car wanted for violent crimes. \n  \n 764 S.W.2d at 579 & n.1. Further, numerous other government and private studies from 1969 through 1988 have concluded that the incidence of pursuit-related death, injury and property damage is disproportionately high to justify an immediate high-speed chase of a fleeing suspect, particularly where the suspected offense is a misdemeanor or non-violent minor felony. National Institute of Justice, U.S. Dept. of Justice, Restrictive Policies for High-Speed Police Pursuits 6-10 (1989) [hereafter cited Institute of Justice High-Speed Police Pursuits Study]. \n The Supreme Court has considered a case involving a high-speed police pursuit culminating in the death of the fleeing driver. In Brower v. County of Inyo, 109 S.Ct. 1378 (1989), officers chased the driver of a stolen car into a roadblock other officers had created by parking a tractor-trailer across a two-lane highway in the middle of the night. The Court held that Brower had been "seized" within the meaning of the fourth amendment, and distinguished the situation [*18]  from an accidental or negligent seizure. High-speed police pursuits present highly dangerous situations to persons already using the highways, and "have frequently been analogized to the use of deadly force," for which training and policies are apparently mandatory to avoid "deliberate indifference" to the constitutional rights of those placed in danger by the police activity. Institute of Justice High-Speed Police Pursuits Study at 4. Appropriate training and policies for high-speed police pursuits addressing factors analogous to those for use of deadly force apparently are necessary for a city to establish by summary judgment evidence as a matter of law that it was not consciously indifferent to the rights of citizens using its highways and streets. \n The city's summary judgment evidence in this case fails to meet those standards. We hold that the City of Mesquite has failed to establish the right to summary judgment on the Section 1983 causes of action because its evidence does not establish as a matter of law that it was not consciously indifferent. \n We reverse the judgment of the trial court and court of appeals, except as to McDonald and Duckworth. We further reverse the trial [*19]  court's ruling on the Section 1983 causes of action except as to McDonald and Duckworth. We have considered all of respondents' arguments advancing alternative theories or grounds for upholding the summary judgment and find them without merit. We remand the cause to the trial court.   \n Concur by: DOGGETT; GONZALEZ  \n Concur \n  \n  \n  \n CONCURRING OPINION \n I concur in the court's judgment and opinion but write separately to respond briefly to the dissent. I agree that "the dissent is not one of liberal versus conservative, for) plaintiff versus defendant,"     S.W.2d at    ; but neither is this a debate between those who have confidence and concern for law enforcement officials versus those who do not. Unfortunately the emotionally charged language of the dissent could create such a misconception. \n The difficulties that our police encounter daily as well as the threat to our society posed by criminal conduct are well known to every member of this court. These facts do not, however, excuse the dissent's substitution of campaign rhetoric for legal reasoning and authority. The dissent's lecture on good and evil masks the one real issue presented in this case -- public safety. \n The very purpose [*20]  of law enforcement, of our Texas Department of Public Safety, is to ensure public safety. If a rookie officer sprayed a crowd with automatic weapons fire in pursuit of a purse snatcher, we would have no difficulty in questioning such conduct. Cf.  Guzman v. City of San Antonio, 766 S.W.2d 858 (Tex. App. -- San Antonio 1989, no writ). Here the question is whether the objective of public safety is served by unsafe conduct. Rather than having "changed 100 years of established law" as the dissent charges,     S.W.2d at    , the court today only recognizes that over a decade ago the legislature resolved the issue of protecting the safety of those who use our public streets and highways. While not prohibiting "hot pursuit," it did require the use of judgment based upon the risk involved. This approach preserves not only the public safety, but the lives of the officers entrusted to protect it. \n In her well-reasoned dissent in the court of appeals, Judge Thomas referred to national data indicating that "one pursuit in five leads to a traffic fatality (and) in only one percent of the cases was someone in the car wanted for violent crimes." 764 S.W.2d at 579. Judge Cook rejects [*21]  this study in favor of one conducted solely among Texas DPS officers, who operate principally upon highways rather than busy city streets. The facts of this particular case, however, seem to fit the norm. Not drugs or violence but the possibility of prostitution at a truck stop set in motion a chase that ended with the death and maiming of innocent bystanders. \n The legislature has determined that the safety of the public is paramount. Although statutorily permitting drivers of emergency vehicles to disregard certain traffic laws, including observance of legal speed limits, the legislature has tempered the driver's discretion by providing that life or property may not be endangered and that due regard for the safety of all persons must be maintained. Tex. Rev. Civ. Stat. Ann. art. 6701d, §§ 24, 75 (Vernon 1977 & Supp. 1991). \n To the extent that it can be deciphered, the standard urged by the dissent would approve conduct done in the name of public security even though it had a certainty of producing public insecurity. An officer's high speed chase through a school zone would be blessed with an impenetrable cloak of immunity. In contrast, the reasonable and moderate position of today's [*22]  opinion appropriately affirms summary judgment for two officers who did no more than "respond to a call for assistance,"     S.W.2d at    , but it appropriately refuses the demand of the dissent to deny a jury in Dallas County the opportunity to evaluate the reasonableness of the conduct of those who gave chase initially. \n Today the court acts consistently with the conclusion of the National Institute of Justice, the principal research branch of the U.S. Department of Justice. Labeling high-speed vehicle pursuits as possibly "the most dangerous of all ordinary police activities," the NIJ underscored law enforcement's paramount objective: \n "The most important reason for effective pursuit policies is not the minimization of liability. It is to protect life and property -- the basic police mission." \n Restrictive Policies for High-Speed Police Pursuits 23 (1989). Heeding the dissent's plea to tolerate any extreme in the name of law and order, regardless of the acute risk to public safety, turns the purpose of this proud calling of law enforcement on its head. \n  \n CONCURRING OPINION \n I agree with the court's conclusion that summary judgment was improper on the negligence [*23]  claim under state law. This requires that the judgment in favor of the city and the two officers initiating the chase be reversed. Police officers are subject to the same rules of negligence as any body else. 1  They should not be automatically exempt from liability in all circumstances. For example, they may not have a right to engage in a high speed chase in a school zone, a crowded neighborhood or through a parade. 2  However, I am not persuaded that the court has correctly determined the 42 U.S.C. § 1983 issues and thus decline to join in that portion of the court's opinion. \n  [*24]   \n Once this court reverses the summary judgment, there is no reason to address other potential error. See Hudson v. Wakefield, 711 S.W.2d 628, 630-31 (Tex. 1986). The partial summary judgment on the Section 1983 cause of action is by its nature interlocutory. The trial court could reconsider, sua sponte or on motion of a party, its disposition of the Section 1983 claims. We should not direct the trial court to reconsider.   \n Dissent by: COOK  \n Dissent \n  \n  \n  \n DISSENTING OPINION \n I respectfully dissent. The majority opinion makes police officers the insurers for negligent damage caused by those individuals who violate our laws. Every time a police officer puts on his badge, straps on his holster, and goes on duty, he is placing himself in harm's way. The majority now requires him to abandon his instinct, training, and experience while attempting to perform his or her duties. \n The truth of the matter is the men and women in blue are fighting guerrilla warfare in the streets and alleys of our state every day. They are confronted by criminals who are better armed with superior fire power and who often have [*25]  better vehicles.  The police are fighting a drug war against individuals who are financed with unlimited funds. Drugs are being sold in our schools at an alarming rate. \n Each year tens of thousands of innocent Americans are killed by drunken drivers. Because of the lack of action by our elected officials to take the necessary steps to rid our streets of drunken drivers, the role of the men and women in blue has become even more important. A significant number of hot pursuits involve drunken drivers. What the majority opinion tells criminals is to plan their escape so they will have a route going the wrong way on a freeway. The criminals will know that the police will probably not be able to pursue them simply because of the personal liability to which this opinion subjects them. This dissent is not one of liberal versus conservative, plaintiff versus defendant; it is to determine whether or not we are a nation of laws or one in which criminals will control the streets. \n We seem unconcerned about sending police officers onto the streets with so many restrictions that it makes it almost impossible for them to carry out their sworn duties. Often, the life or death of a police officer [*26]  is measured in seconds.  By court opinions, we have taken the edge away from police officers and given it to criminals. Today's men and women in blue are second guessed at every turn. \n In the December 3, 1990, issue of U.S. News & World Report, it was pointed out as follows: \n The fear of being sued is never far from officers' minds. It certainly wasn't for FBI agent Ed Mireles, the hero of the bureau's bloody 1986 Miami shoot-out in which two agents were killed and five were wounded. Before the shooting began, the car in which Mireles rode was crashing and banging against the vehicle driven by the two alleged bank robbers. Mireles could almost reach out and touch the driver. "Even today, I keep running that back," he says. ". . . What flashed through my mind was the legal ramifications, the liability issue. . . ." As it turned out, two of his fellow agents were slain before a wounded Mireles killed both assailants. \n Cops User Fire, U.S. News & World Report, Dec. 3, 1990, at p. 39. \n This opinion gives a further edge to the criminal element that seeks to destroy our society. Most freeways, such as IH 35 in Austin, contain elevated portions. Because it is impossible to [*27]  know what might be on the other side of an elevated portion of the freeway, all the criminal will have to do is drive the wrong way at a high rate of speed and thus avoid pursuit. If there is an accident caused by the fleeing suspect and an innocent third party is injured, the police officer may very well be held personally liable. \n According to the same U.S. News & World Report article, nearly thirty-six million Americans were victims of serious crimes in 1989, including nearly nineteen thousand murder victims. In the first six months of 1990, reported violent crimes increased by ten percent over the comparable period of the previous year. Id. at p. 33. Last year in New York City alone, the police answered more than four million 911 emergency calls. Id. at p. 35. \n I do not believe the picture painted by the majority opinion correctly portrays the results of high-speed pursuits in Texas. The Texas Department of Public Safety conducted a survey of all high-speed pursuits undertaken by its officers for a three month period in 1989. The results of the survey demonstrate an absence of the tragic consequences which the majority suggests are inherent in a majority of high-speed [*28]  pursuits. Of the 159 pursuits, the majority of the pursuits lasted eight minutes or less and involved distances of less than four miles. Supplemental Brief of the Texas Department of Public Safety at Appendix A, p. 1-2. \n These figures suggest that the injuries suffered by innocent third parties are the rare exception rather than the norm. Of the 159 Department of Public Safety pursuits, not one single pursuit resulted in an injury to an innocent third party. Id. at 3. The absence of any injuries to third parties is particularly noteworthy in light of the fact that the majority of pursuits involved top speeds of between 80 and 120 miles per hour.  Id. at 4. \n The majority opinion, in stating that police officers in this state may be held liable for the negligent conduct of a suspect they pursue, is in effect telling the police officers that they should not engage in such pursuits. Another significant factor in the study conducted by the Texas Department of Public Safety is that 69 of the total 159 pursuits involved alcohol or drugs. Thirty-four of the cases involved pursuit of stolen vehicles. Id. at 6. We know tens of thousands of deaths are caused each year by drunken [*29]  drivers. When we talk of risk, it is important to remember that the police officer is often traveling at speeds of over 110 miles per hour in a car that frequently has excessive mileage on it, and is placing his life on the line in order to protect our spouses, our children, and our families. These men and women, underpaid and underappreciated, stand between us and utter anarchy. \n Few pages have been written in our history books about the men and women in blue who have patrolled the thousands of communities in Texas since we became a state. Wherever these men and women have patrolled, those places eventually became safe, civilized communities where one could walk without fear. The majority has changed 100 years of established law and has made the police officers of this state liable for the negligent conduct of drug dealers, drunken drivers, and other felons.   \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 