Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n Appellant mother sued appellees, a hospital and a hospital nurse, in the 225th Judicial District Court, Bexar County (Texas) for intentional infliction of emotional distress, common law fraud, violations of the Texas Deceptive Trade Practices Act, and medical malpractice. The trial court granted a directed verdict in favor of the hospital and the nurse and the mother appealed. \n Overview \n The pregnant mother was driven to the hospital and admitted in the emergency room. While waiting, she complained of pain to the nurse, made several trips to the restroom, and during her last trip yelled that she was in a lot of pain and felt something coming. The baby came out in the restroom stall. Because a hospital bed would not fit through the restroom door, she had to get up and walk to a bed outside the restroom. The trial court properly granted a directed verdict on her intentional infliction of emotional distress claim because she failed to show she suffered severe emotional distress. The trial court properly granted a directed verdict on her common law fraud claim based on the nurse's misrepresentations that she would "be there soon" because the mother failed to prove the nurse knew the statement was false when made. As the mother failed to establish that the hospital fully billed her for the infant's labor and delivery, a directed verdict was proper on her deceptive trade practices claims. Because the mother failed to offer expert testimony as to proximate cause on her medical malpractice claim, the trial court properly granted a directed verdict on that claim as well. \n Outcome \n Appellate court affirmed the judgment of the trial court. \n Counsel: FOR APPELLANT: Andrew E. Toscano, Gene Toscano, Inc., San Antonio, TX. Geoffrey N. Courtney, Attorney At Law, Austin, TX. \n FOR APPELLEE: Cathy J. Sheehan, Jerry A. Gibson, Gary B. Gibson, Richard N. Francis, Jr., Plunkett & Gibson, Inc., San Antonio, TX.   \n Judges: Opinion by: Alma L. Lopez, Justice. Sitting: Phil Hardberger, Chief Justice, Alma L. Lopez, Justice, Sandee Bryan Marion, Justice. Concurring opinion by: Sandee Bryan Marion, Justice.   \n Opinion by: Alma L. Lopez \n Opinion \n  \n  \n Appellants, Pearl Trevino and Roman Ramos, sued appellees, Christus Santa Rosa Healthcare ("Santa Rosa") and Nichola Harlan ("Harlan"), for intentional infliction of emotional distress, common law fraud, violations of the Deceptive Trade Practices Act (DTPA), and medical malpractice. The trial court granted a directed verdict in favor of appellees. Appellants bring this appeal. We affirm. \n  \n BACKGROUND \n On August 21, 1997, Trevino, who was pregnant with her first child, woke her mother up in the middle of the night. She told her mother that she thought she was going into labor because she was vaginally bleeding, frequently urinating, and in a lot of pain. Her mother drove her to Santa [*2]  Rosa Hospital and registered her daughter in the emergency room. As they sat in the waiting area, Trevino continued to tell her mother that she was in a lot of pain. Thereafter, Trevino made several trips to the public restroom. During her last trip to the restroom, Trevino continued to complain from the restroom stall that she was in a lot of pain and began yelling that she felt something coming. Trevino's mother went to inform Harlan, a nurse, of her daughter's condition to which Harlan replied "I'll be over there in a little bit." A security guard who had assisted Trevino when she first arrived at the hospital went to check on her in the restroom. Trevino yelled to the security guard that the baby was already coming out. The security guard went to call Harlan. Harlan arrived and saw Trevino sitting on the toilet. Harlan knelt down in the stall and noticed the baby's head bulging out. Harlan asked the security guard to call the emergency room physician, the neonatal staff, and requested suction. Meanwhile, Harlan guided the baby out, and the next thing Harlan knew, the emergency room physician was there. The physician gave Harlan the suction cup, and she proceeded to suction the [*3]  baby's mouth and nose. \n Within minutes, other hospital personnel arrived and transported Trevino's baby, Roman, in an incubator to the neonatal intensive care unit. Minutes later, hospital personnel brought a hospital bed to transport Trevino. However, the bed did not fit through the public restroom door. As a result, Trevino was asked to get up and walk from the restroom stall to the bed located outside the restroom. Hospital personnel gave Trevino something resembling a sheet to put between her legs to hold the umbilical cord, placenta and fluids. Other than that, Trevino was naked from the waist down. When she walked out of the public restroom, Trevino witnessed what seemed to her to be a crowd of people standing outside watching and applauding her. She assisted herself onto the bed and was covered with a sheet. Trevino was then transferred to the labor and delivery department to deliver the placenta. \n Trevino, individually and on behalf of Roman, subsequently sued Santa Rosa and Harlan for intentional infliction of emotional distress, common law fraud, DTPA violations, and medical malpractice. After appellants presented their case at trial, appellees moved for a directed verdict [*4]  on each claim. The trial court granted a directed verdict in favor of appellees. Trevino argues that the trial court erred in granting a directed verdict. \n  \n STANDARD OF REVIEW \n In reviewing a challenge to a directed verdict, we must determine whether there is any evidence to raise a fact issue.  Szczepanik v. First S. Trust Co., 883 S.W.2d 648, 649, 37 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 860 (Tex. 1994). We consider all of the evidence in the light most favorable to the party against whom the verdict was directed and disregard all contrary evidence and inferences. Id. If the record contains any conflicting evidence of probative value on any theory of recovery, a directed verdict is improper and the case must be reversed and remanded for jury determination of that issue. Id. \n A. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress \n Trevino first argues that the trial court improperly granted a directed verdict regarding her claim of intentional infliction of emotional distress. To sustain such a claim, a plaintiff must prove: (1) the defendant acted intentionally or recklessly; (2) the conduct was extreme and outrageous; (3) the acts caused the plaintiff emotional distress; and (4) the distress suffered [*5]  was severe.  Bradford v. Vento, 48 S.W.3d 749, 758, 44 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 655 (Tex. 2001).  \n In the instant matter, Trevino argues that appellees acted recklessly by not providing her with a hospital gown and making her walk, about seven steps down a hallway, half-naked to the hospital bed that awaited her outside the public restroom with nothing other than a sheet in between her legs. 1  Trevino also argues that appellees failed to clear the area outside of the public restroom. As a result, when she emerged from the public restroom she was met with a crowd of applauding people standing outside watching her. Trevino testified that at that time of the incident she felt mad and embarrassed. 2  \n  [*6]  Even if we assumed that appellees's conduct was reckless and that it was extreme and outrageous, Trevino has failed to provide evidence that she suffered severe emotional distress as a result of having been made to walk from the restroom stall half-naked to the bed that awaited her outside the public restroom. "Severe emotional distress" means distress so severe that no reasonable person could be expected to endure it.  Stokes v. Puckett, 972 S.W.2d 921, 924 (Tex. App.--Beaumont 1998, pet. denied). However, in establishing "severe emotional distress," Trevino needed to show that she suffered "more than 'mere worry, anxiety, vexation, embarrassment, or anger.'" Parkway Co., v. Woodruff, 901 S.W.2d 434, 444, 38 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 828 (Tex. 1995) (quoting J.B. Custom Design & Bldg. v. Clawson, 794 S.W.2d 38, 43 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1990, no writ). This, Trevino failed to do. As such, Trevino's intentional infliction of emotional distress claim must fail. We hold that the trial court did not err in granting a directed verdict on her claim. Trevino's first issue is overruled. \n B. Common Law Fraud \n Trevino next argues that the trial court improperly [*7]  granted appellees's motion for directed verdict regarding her claim of common law fraud. Trevino alleges that because of Harlan's misrepresentations, Roman was born in one of Santa Rosa's public restrooms. Appellees argue that the directed verdict was proper because Trevino's claim is preempted by article 4590(i) section 12.01(a) of the Texas Civil Statutes. Section 12.01(a), however, only precludes a DTPA suit against a physician for negligence. See TEX. REV. CIV. STAT. ANN. art. 4590i, § 12.01(a) (Vernon Supp. 2002); see also  Sorokolit v. Rhodes, 889 S.W.2d 239, 242, 37 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 680 (Tex. 1994). Nevertheless, appellees argue that the factual allegations underlying Trevino's common law fraud claim really amount to a negligence claim; therefore, appellees argue that Trevino is attempting to circumvent section 12.01 by claiming common law fraud. We do not agree.  \n To determine whether Trevino is attempting to circumvent section 12.01, we review the underlying nature of her common law fraud claim. See  Hart v. Wright, 16 S.W.3d 872, 877 (Tex. App.--Fort Worth 2000, pet. denied). If her claim is based on [*8]  the physician's breach of the accepted standard of medical care, the claim is nothing more than a negligence claim and thus precluded from suit under section 12.01(a). See id.; see also  Sorokolit, 889 S.W.2d at 242. In this case, Trevino does not claim that appellees deviated from the accepted standard of medical care. Instead, Trevino argues that because of appellees's misrepresentations 3 , Roman was born in one of the hospital's public restrooms causing her to suffer severe emotional distress. Because we hold that Trevino's common law fraud claim is not precluded by section 12.01(a), we next determine whether there is any evidence to raise a fact issue on each element of her claim.  Szczepanik, 883 S.W.2d at 649. \n To succeed on a claim of common law fraud, a plaintiff must establish that: (1) a [*9]  material representation was made; (2) the representation was false; (3) when the representation was made, the speaker knew it was false or made it without any knowledge of the truth and as a positive assertion; (4) the representation was made with the intention that it be acted upon by the other party; (5) the party acted in reliance upon the representation; and (6) the party suffered injury.  Johnson & Higgins of Tex., Inc. v. Kenneco Energy, Inc., 962 S.W.2d 507, 524, 41 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 268 (Tex. 1998). Trevino argues that Harlan made the following representations: "I'll be over there in a little bit" and "I will be over there." Despite these representations, Trevino argues Harlan "never came." It was not until Trevino began to give birth to her baby in the public restroom that Harlan arrived. However, even if we assumed these were material representations, Trevino failed to provide any evidence that, when the representations were made, Harlan knew the representations were false. As such, Trevino failed to establish all the elements of her common law fraud claim, and a directed verdict was proper. We overrule Trevino's second issue.  \n C. DTPA \n In her third issue, Trevino argues that [*10]  the trial court improperly granted appellees's motion for directed verdict on her DTPA claims. To support her claims, Trevino offered evidence of the Santa Rosa hospital bill regarding medical services performed. The trial court did not admit the hospital bill into evidence, and as a result, appellants offered it on a bill of review. Trevino argues that the trial court abused its discretion in refusing to admit evidence of the hospital bill. 4  Trevino, however, failed to properly brief this issue for appellate review. See TEX. R. APP. P. 38.1(h). As such, we will not consider the hospital bill as evidence in reviewing Trevino's DTPA claims. \n Trevino first argues that billing for services that were not performed is a clear violation of section 17.46(b)(22) of the DTPA.  [*11]  However, because the hospital bill is not in evidence, there is no evidence to support Trevino's claim. We note that even if the hospital bill was in evidence, section 17.46(b)(22) would not apply to this case. That section provides that a false, misleading, or deceptive act or practice includes "representing that work or services have been performed on, or parts replaced in, goods when the work or services were not performed or the services replaced." Act of May 24, 1995, 74th Leg., R.S., ch. 463, 1995 Tex. Gen. Laws 3178 (amended 2001) (current version at TEX. BUS. & COM. CODE ANN. § 17.46(b)(22) (Vernon 2002)) (emphasis added). The term "goods" as defined in the DTPA means "tangible chattels or real property purchased or leased for use." TEX. BUS. & COM. CODE ANN. § 17.45(1) (Vernon 2002). Trevino does not fit within the definition of "goods" as defined in the DTPA. Therefore, Trevino is not "goods" and that section could not apply. \n Trevino also argues that she has a remedy under section 17.50(a)(3) of the DTPA because "given the circumstances of the delivery, fully billing for a manually assisted delivery takes advantage [*12]  of [her] to a grossly unfair degree." That section allows Trevino to maintain an action where any unconscionable action or course of action constitutes a producing cause of economic or mental anguish damages. See  TEX. BUS. & COM. CODE ANN. § 17.50(a)(3) (Vernon 2002). Again, without the hospital bill in evidence, there is no evidence that Santa Rosa performed an unconscionable action or course of action.  \n Even if we considered the hospital bill in evidence, Trevino failed to establish on bill of review that Santa Rosa fully billed her for Roman's labor and delivery. Trevino only complains about one charge on the entire hospital bill incurred for a "vaginal delivery." She argues that it is unconscionable to charge her for this service because "the only manual assistance was to catch the baby before he went into the toilet." The evidence reflects that after giving birth to Roman, she was transported to the labor and delivery department to deliver the placenta. Trevino's mother, who received the hospital bill, testified on bill of review that she did not know whether the charge for "vaginal delivery" was for delivery of the placenta and whether the [*13]  amount charged was for a partial or full amount of a normal vaginal delivery. Without evidence establishing what the charge on the hospital bill was for and what it covered, we cannot make a determination of whether Santa Rosa's action was unconscionable. The trial court properly granted appellees's motion for directed verdict on Trevino's DTPA claims. Appellant's third issue is overruled. \n D. Medical Malpractice \n Lastly, Trevino argues that the trial court improperly granted appellees's motion for directed verdict on her medical malpractice claim 5  because expert testimony was not required to establish proximate cause. To recover from a medical malpractice claim, a plaintiff must establish that the defendant was negligent by failing to meet the applicable standard of care and that the negligence was the proximate cause of the plaintiff's injury.  Cloys v. Turbin, 608 S.W.2d 697, 700 (Tex. App.--Dallas 1980, no writ). \n  [*14]  In this case, Trevino produced Joanne Leyva as an expert to testify as to the applicable standard of care. Trevino, however, did not offer expert testimony as to proximate cause. Instead, she argues that "the nature of the malpractice and injuries are plainly within the knowledge of laymen," thereby, eliminating the requirement of expert testimony to prove proximate cause. We do not agree. Trevino needed testimony establishing that she would not have experienced pain during her delivery had she been properly triaged. This fact is not a matter of common knowledge nor within the experience of laymen. Only a doctor could testify that, based on a reasonable medical probability, a doctor would have had time to evaluate her and order pain medication to alleviate her pain during delivery had she been properly triaged.  Park Place Hosp. v. Estate of Milo, 909 S.W.2d 508, 511, 39 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 70 (Tex. 1995). As such, Trevino needed expert testimony to establish proximate cause. See  Reynolds v. Warthan, 896 S.W.2d 823, 826 (Tex. App.--Tyler 1995, no writ) (expert testimony required to prove negligence unless form or mode of treatment is matter of common knowledge or within the [*15]  experience of layperson).  \n But Trevino argues, citing Hernandez v. Altenberg, 904 S.W.2d 734 (Tex. App.--San Antonio 1995, writ denied), that even though she lacks expert testimony on the element of proximate cause, a directed verdict would be improper because a jury may infer causation from an expert's testimony. In Hernandez, this court held that if an expert's testimony establishes general medical principles from which the jury may legitimately infer causation then there may be some evidence of causation. Id. at 739. However, in the instant matter, Leyva's expert testimony did not establish general medical principles from which a jury can legitimately infer causation. Leyva only testified as to a nurse's standard of care opining that Harlan should have assessed Trevino more appropriately to determine how far along she was in her pregnancy. Leyva was not qualified as an expert on the issue of causation and thus did not offer any expert testimony relating that causation existed based upon a reasonable medical probability. Consequently, Trevino failed to show, by expert testimony, that but for Harlan's conduct, Trevino would not have experienced [*16]  pain during delivery had she been triaged sooner. Because Trevino has failed to provide any evidence on the element of proximate cause, she cannot maintain a medical malpractice claim. The trial court properly granted a directed verdict in favor of appellees. Trevino's last issue is overruled. \n  \n CONCLUSION \n Having overruled appellants's issues, we affirm the judgment of the trial court. \n Alma L. Lopez, Justice  \n Concur by: Sandee Bryan Marion \n Concur \n  \n  \n  \n CONCURRING OPINION \n I concur with the majority's affirming the trial court's judgment; however, I respectfully disagree with the majority's conclusion that the factual allegations underlying Trevino's common law fraud claim are not a recast negligence claim. I would hold that her common law fraud claim is really a negligence claim within the ambit of the Medical Liability and Insurance Improvement Act ("MLIIA"). \n A plaintiff may bring a common law fraud claim that is not governed by the MLIIA; Savage v. Psychiatric Inst. of Bedford, Inc., 965 S.W.2d 745, 751 (Tex. App.--Fort Worth 1998, pet. denied); however, plaintiffs may not recast claims that a health care provider was negligent as a fraud claim to avoid the [*17]  standards set forth in the MLIIA. The MLIIA applies only to "health care liability claims," which are defined as follows: \n a cause of action against a health care provider or physician for treatment, lack of treatment, or other claimed departure from accepted standards of medical care or health care or safety which proximately results in injury to or death of the patient, whether the patient's claim or cause of action sounds in tort or contract. \n  \n TEX. REV. CIV. STAT. ANN. art. 4590i, § 1.03(a)(4).  \n A cause of action will be considered a health care liability claim if it is based on a breach of a standard of care applicable to health care providers.  Sorokolit v. Rhodes, 889 S.W.2d 239, 242, 37 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 680 (Tex. 1994). The act or omission complained of must be an inseparable part of the rendition of medical services. See  Walden v. Jeffery, 907 S.W.2d 446, 448, 38 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 374 (Tex. 1995); Drury v. Baptist Memorial Hosp. Sys., 933 S.W.2d 668, 676 (Tex. App.--San Antonio 1996, writ denied). To determine whether a cause of action fits this definition, we must look at the underlying nature of the claim.  MacGregor Med. Ass'n v. Campbell, 985 S.W.2d 38, 40, 42 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 101 (Tex. 1998); [*18]  Sorokolit, 889 S.W.2d at 242. We should examine whether the claim involves the diagnosis, care, or treatment of the patient, and whether expert testimony would be required to prove the alleged negligence.  Rogers v. Crossroads Nursing Serv., Inc., 13 S.W.3d 417, 419 (Tex. App.--Corpus Christi 1999, no pet.). \n In her petition, Trevino alleged she relied on Santa Rosa's representations that she could present herself as a patient in the event she needed emergency medical care and she would receive the care she needed when she went to Santa Rosa's emergency room. She contended she did not receive the care as represented to her. At trial, Trevino alleged that because of Harlan's misrepresentation: "I will be over there in a little bit," her child was born in a public restroom. I believe the underlying nature of Trevino's complaint is that she did not receive the medical treatment promised by either Santa Rosa or Harlan, which in turn, gives rise to a claim that Harlan and Santa Rosa breached a standard of medical care. Because Trevino's claim arises from medical care she allegedly should have had, but did not receive, her claim is governed by the MLIIA.  [*19]  As such, she was required to present expert testimony on the applicable standard of care, the manner in which the care failed to meet that standard, and the causal relationship between that failure and the claimed injury. Because she failed to do so, I would hold that a directed verdict was proper. In all other respects, I concur in the majority's judgment. \n Sandee Bryan Marion, Justice  \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 