Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n Appellant mother sought review of the decision of the 269th District Court, Harris County (Texas), which granted summary judgment in favor of appellees, an apartment complex and individuals, in the mother's action in part for premises liability after her son was sexually assaulted at the apartment complex. \n Overview \n The mother filed an action against the apartment complex and individuals in part for premises liability stemming from her minor son being sexually assault at the apartment complex. The trial court granted summary judgment against the mother, but the court reversed, stating that it concluded that the summary judgment evidence showed that a genuine issue of material fact existed regarding whether it was reasonably foreseeable to the apartment complex and individuals that the residents of the apartment complex would be subjected to violent criminal acts, including sexual assault. A significant number of violent crimes occurred at the apartment complex within a period of less than three years. Although none of the earlier identified crimes was identical to the sexual assault of the mother's son, they were sufficiently similar in that they were violent personal crimes, making the risk of other violent crimes foreseeable. \n Outcome \n The court reversed the trial court's judgment and remanded for further proceedings except as to causes of action for breach of contract, implied warranty of habitability, and violations of the Deceptive Trade Practices Act because those actions were not challenged on appeal. \n Counsel: For Appellant: Francis I. Spagnoletti, James T. Liston, Jerry Von Sternberg, Spagnoletti & Associates, Houston, TX. \n For Appellee: Brock C. Akers, Phillips & Akers, Houston, TX.  Evelyn Ailts Derrington, Phillips & Akers, P.C., Houston, TX.   \n Judges: Panel consists of Justices Taft, Keyes, and Higley.   \n Opinion by: Laura C.  Higley  \n Opinion \n  \n  \n  \n MEMORANDUM OPINION \n Appellant, Maria S. Urena, individually and as next friend for L. U., appeals a summary judgment in favor of appellees, Western Investments (Front Royale Apartments), Ron Deutsch, Warren Deutsch, and Kate Michon. On November 6, 1999, L. U., a minor, was sexually assaulted at the Front Royale Apartments.  \n In two points of error, appellant asserts that the trial court erred in granting summary judgment because (1) sufficient evidence of simple negligence was presented, and (2) sufficient evidence to support a claim under premises liability showing that the injuries inflicted were proximately caused by the breach of appellee's duty to appellant was presented. \n We reverse and remand. \n  \n  [*2] Background \n Maria Urena and her minor children, S. U. and L. U., resided in the Front Royale Apartments complex in Houston. Urena's sister, Araceli Grimaldo, lived in the same complex. Another sister, Olga Grimaldo, lived in the English Oaks Apartment complex located across the street from the Front Royale Apartments. \n On November 6, 1999, Urena left L. U. with Araceli while she went to work. While playing inside at Araceli's apartment, L. U. decided to return to his apartment in order to bring over some of his own toys. As he was returning to his apartment unit, L. U. was lured into an apartment occupied by Miguel Angel Zuniga, through Zuniga's promise of a dollar bill. Zuniga sexually assaulted L. U.. Immediately after the assault, L. U.'s aunts discovered what had happened. A couple of his aunts went to Zuniga's apartment and confronted Zuniga, while one aunt called the police. Zuniga fled before the police arrived and has never been found. A subsequent criminal investigation revealed that Zuniga had two convictions for traffic offenses, but no violent or sexual assault convictions. \n  \n Standards of Review \n This is an appeal from the trial court's grant of appellees'  [*3]  motion for summary judgment against appellant on all asserted causes of action. The motion for summary judgment was based on both traditional and no-evidence grounds. TEX. R. CIV. P. 166a(c),(i). In their motion for summary judgment, appellees asserted that they owed no duty to appellant because there was no fact issue or no evidence as to the foreseeability requirement of appellant's claim, and that, thus, the crime could not be deemed the proximate cause of L. U.'s injury \n Traditional Summary Judgment \n A traditional summary judgment under Rule 166a(c) is proper only when the movant establishes that there is no genuine issue of material fact and that it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. TEX. R. CIV. P. 166a(c);  Randall's Food Mkts., Inc. v. Johnson, 891 S.W.2d 640, 644, 38 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 167 (Tex. 1995). In reviewing a summary judgment, we indulge every reasonable inference in favor of the non-movant and resolve any doubts in its favor.  Johnson, 891 S.W.2d at 644;  Lawson v. B Four Corp., 888 S.W.2d 31, 33 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1994, writ denied). We take all evidence favorable to the non-movant as true.  Johnson, 891 S.W.2d at 644; [*4]   Lawson, 888 S.W.2d at 33. As movant, the defendant is entitled to summary judgment if the evidence disproves, as a matter of law, at least one element of each of the plaintiff's causes of action or conclusively establishes each element of an affirmative defense.  Friendswood Dev. Co. v. McDade + Co., 926 S.W.2d 280, 282, 39 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 874 (Tex. 1996). \n No-evidence Summary Judgment \n When reviewing a no-evidence summary judgment, we must consider the evidence in the light most favorable to the non-movant and make all inferences in the non-movant's favor. TEX. R. CIV. P. 166a(i);  Morgan v. Anthony, 27 S.W.3d 928, 929, 43 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 1172 (Tex. 2000);  Flameout Design & Fabrication, Inc. v. Pennzoil Caspian Corp., 994 S.W.2d 830, 834 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1999, no pet.). A no-evidence summary judgment is properly granted if the non-movant fails to produce more than a scintilla of evidence to raise a genuine issue of material fact as to an essential element of the non-movant's claim on which the non-movant would have the burden of proof at trial.  Flameout Design & Fabrication, 994 S.W.2d at 834. More than a scintilla of [*5]  evidence exists when the evidence "rises to a level that would enable reasonable and fair-minded people to differ in their conclusions." See  Burroughs Wellcome Co. v. Crye, 907 S.W.2d 497, 499, 38 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 848 (Tex. 1995). \n When a trial court does not state the basis for its decision in its summary judgment order, as in this case, we must uphold the order if any of the theories advanced in the motion is meritorious.  Rogers v. Ricane Enters., Inc., 772 S.W.2d 76, 79, 32 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 458 (Tex. 1989). \n  \n Analysis \n  \n Negligence \n In her first point of error, appellant asserts that the trial court erred in granting summary judgment because there was sufficient evidence of simple negligence. \n Appellant contends that summary judgment was erroneously granted because it was based on  Timberwalk Apartments, Partners, Inc. v. Cain, 972 S.W.2d 749, 41 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 1138 (Tex. 1998). In the first point of error, appellant asserts that this is not a Timberwalk case because Timberwalk addresses a landlord's liability for attacks by unknown persons; appellant contends that this is an ordinary negligence case based on appellees' failure to protect against a known threat from a known [*6]  individual. This is a distinction without a legal difference.  \n To recover in negligence, a plaintiff must establish a legal duty owed by the defendant, a breach of that duty, and damages proximately caused by that breach.  Lee Lewis Constr., Inc. v. Harrison, 70 S.W.3d 778, 782, 45 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 232 (Tex. 2001). The threshold inquiry in a negligence case is whether the defendant owes a legal duty to the plaintiff.  Centeq Realty, Inc. v. Siegler, 899 S.W.2d 195, 197, 38 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 658 (Tex. 1995). The existence of a legal duty presents a question of law for the court to determine from the facts surrounding the occurrence in question. Id. \n In Timberwalk, the supreme court distinguished between liability for negligent activity and premises liability for failing to remedy an unreasonable risk of harm due to the condition of the premises.  972 S.W.2d at 753. It held that recovery for negligent activity requires that a person have been injured by the activity itself rather than by a condition created by the activity; whereas, recovery for premises liability depends upon a failure to use ordinary care to reduce or eliminate an unreasonable risk of harm created by a premises condition [*7]  the owner (or occupier) knows about or, in the exercise of ordinary care, should know about. Id. The court held that a complaint that a landowner failed to provide adequate security against criminal conduct is ordinarily a premises liability claim.  Id. at 753.  \n In Timberwalk, a tenant who was raped in her apartment sued the landlord and management company for negligent failure to provide adequate security.  Id. at 751. The tenant asserted that the landlord's failure to provide adequate security measures created an unreasonable risk of harm that the landlord knew or should have known about and yet failed to correct.  Id. at 753. The court held that it was a premises liability claim and that the lower court had properly refused a request to charge the jury under a negligent activity theory. Id. Appellant's claim falls squarely within the scope of Timberwalk.  \n We disagree with appellant's contention that, because Zuniga was a known person (a tenant), Timberwalk does not apply to this situation. Although Timberwalk involves an attack by a non-tenant, and this case involves an attack by another tenant, Timberwalk  [*8]  outlines the necessary requirements to establish a duty to protect invitees from criminal acts of a "third person." We do not agree that a "third person" is limited to non-tenants or unknown persons. We conclude that the law set forth in Timberwalk applies both to known persons, such as tenants, and to unknown persons, such as non-tenants, and that this case is properly construed as a premises liability case, not a negligence case. We hold that Timberwalk is the appropriate standard, and therefore, address whether summary judgment was proper, following the Timberwalk analysis. \n We overrule appellant's first point of error. \n Premises Liability \n In their motion for summary judgment, appellees claimed that they neither had a duty to appellant nor was the criminal act the proximate cause of L. U.'s injuries because the criminal act was not foreseeable. In her second point of error, appellant contends that she presented sufficient summary judgment evidence to show that a genuine issue of material fact existed as to whether the sexual assault was foreseeable by appellees. \n Foreseeability is a component of both duty and proximate cause.  Greater Houston Transp. Co. v. Phillips, 801 S.W.2d 523, 525, 34 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 194 (Tex. 1990) [*9]  (recognizing foreseeability is foremost and dominant consideration in determining whether a duty exists);  Doe v. Boys Clubs of Greater Dallas, Inc., 907 S.W.2d 472, 477, 38 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 732 (Tex. 1995). Proximate cause incorporates two elements: cause-in-fact and foreseeability. Id. \n Although foreseeability is a component of both duty and proximate cause, Texas courts have not clearly defined the relationship existing between duty, proximate cause, and foreseeability. The Texas Supreme Court's opinion in Mellon Mortgage Company v. Holder, reflects this lack of clarity.  5 S.W.3d 654, 42 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 1155, 42 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 1159 (Tex. 1999). The three-justice plurality opinion in Mellon asserts that the foreseeability analysis is the same for both duty and proximate cause.  Id. at 659. On the other hand, the three-justice dissenting opinion and Justice Baker's concurrence suggest that the focus of the foreseeability analysis should be on proximate cause instead of duty.  Id. at 663. Regardless of the distinction between foreseeability as an element of duty and foreseeability as an element of proximate cause, we examine foreseeability generally to resolve this appeal. \n Foreseeability [*10]  is the dominant consideration in determining whether a duty exists.  Greater Houston Transp. Co. 801 S.W.2d at 525. In general, there is no legal duty to protect another from criminal acts of a third person.  Timberwalk, 972 S.W.2d at 756. However, an exception is that "one who controls . . . premises does have a duty to use ordinary care to protect invitees from criminal acts of third parties if he knows or has reason to know of an unreasonable and foreseeable risk of harm to the invitee." Id. This exception applies to landlords who retain control over the security and safety of the premises. Id. Here, it is undisputed that Front Royale retained control over the security and safety of the premises. The question, therefore, is whether appellee established as a matter of law that it had no duty to protect its tenants from sexual assault at the complex. \n Under the Timberwalk analysis, the foreseeabilty of an unreasonable risk of criminal conduct is a prerequisite to imposing a duty of care on a person who controls premises to protect others on the property from risk. Id. "Foreseeability is the beginning, not the end, of the analysis in [*11]  determining the extent of the duty to protect criminal acts of third parties." Id. (quoting  Lefmark Management Co. v. Old, 946 S.W.2d 52, 59, 40 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 577 (Owen, J., concurring) (Tex. 1997)). \n A duty exists only when the risk of criminal conduct is so great that it is both unreasonable and foreseeable.  Timberwalk, 972 S.W.2d at 756. Factors the court should consider in determining whether certain criminal conduct should have been foreseeable are (1) whether any criminal conduct previously occurred on or near the property, (2) how recently it occurred, (3) how often it occurred, (4) how similar the conduct was to the conduct on the property, and (5) what publicity was given the occurrences to indicate that the landowner knew or should have know about them.  Id. at 757. We review these factors to determine whether the criminal conduct was foreseeable and thus, whether appellee owed a duty to appellant. \n For a landowner to foresee criminal conduct on property, there must be evidence that other crimes have occurred on the property or in its immediate vicinity. Id. The court emphasized that criminal activity occurring farther from the landowner's [*12]  property becomes less relevant than crime in the immediate vicinity. See id. The occurrence of a significant number of crimes within a short time period strengthens the claim that the particular crime at issue was foreseeable.  Id. at 758. The complete absence of previous crimes, or the occurrence of a few crimes over an extended time period, negates the foreseeability element. Id. Although prior crimes need not be identical, they must be sufficiently similar to the crime in question to place the landowner on notice of the specific danger. Id. Finally, the publicity surrounding the previous crimes helps determine whether a landowner knew or should have known of a foreseeable danger. Id. Actual notice by the landlord strengthens the claim that future crime was foreseeable, but unreported criminal activity is no evidence of foreseeability.  Id. at 758-59. Property owners have no duty to regularly inspect criminal records to determine the risk of crime in the area.  Id. at 759. A landlord can be expected to have knowledge of widely publicized criminal activity. Id. These factors--proximity, recency, frequency, similarity,  [*13]  and publicity--must be considered together in determining whether criminal conduct was foreseeable. Id.  \n In Timberwalk, no violent personal crime had occurred at the Timberwalk Apartments for 10 years preceding the tenant's sexual assault.  Id. at 759. The only crimes in the complex involved a tire-slashing, car burglary, and a car theft. Id. In the year preceding the sexual assault, only one sexual assault had occurred within a one- mile radius of the Timberwalk Apartments. Id. Although six assault-type crimes occurred in neighboring complexes, there was no evidence that they had been publicized or that Timberwalk had knowledge about them. Id. Based on these factors, the Timberwalk court held that the risk of sexual assault was not foreseeable to Timberwalk, and, therefore, no duty was owed to provide additional security. Id. \n In this case, by contrast, appellant offered police records of eight crimes that occurred at the Front Royale Apartments in the three years before this crime. A synopsis of the crimes is as follows: \n 1. Attempted Sexual Assault - March 1, 1997 \n 2. Robbery - March 31, 1997 \n 3. Aggravated Assault - September 8, 1998 \n 4.  [*14]  Aggravated Robbery - November 14, 1998 \n 5. Capital Murder - January 6, 1999 \n 6. Murder - August 27, 1999 \n 7. Aggravated Robbery - September 1, 1999 \n 8. Aggravated Robbery - October 30, 1999 \n One of the murders involved a tenant and his guest, while the other murder appears to have been an outsider (possibly gang related) who murdered a tenant near the laundry facilities. The attempted sexual assault involved an adult male tenant and his neighbor adult female tenant. The aggravated robbery in September of 1999 involved the robbery of an apartment complex employee by possible gang members. The previous crimes must be sufficiently similar to the crime in question as to place the landowner on notice of the specific danger.  Id. at 758. However, the prior crimes need not be identical. Id. In Timberwalk, for example, the court held that prior incidents of vandalism and theft did not make the stabbing of a guest foreseeable. Id. However, a string of assaults and robberies in an apartment complex makes the risk of other violent crimes, such as murder and rape, foreseeable. Id. \n We apply the factors--proximity, recency, frequency, similarity,  [*15]  and publicity--to the evidence before us. Appellant presented evidence of eight crimes; seven crimes occurred on the apartment complex premises and one crime occurred very near the complex as a tenant was walking from his apartment. A significant number of violent crimes occurred at the Front Royale Apartments within a period of less than three years, in contrast to no violent crimes at the Timberwalk apartments in the Timberwalk case in the preceding 10 year period. Although none of the earlier identified crimes in this case was identical to the sexual assault of L. U., they were sufficiently similar in that they were violent personal crimes, making the risk of other violent crimes foreseeable. See id. Additionally, evidence was presented that, not only did appellees have actual knowledge of many of these crimes, but many of the tenants had heard about some of the crimes, thus satisfying the publicity element. \n Applying the Timberwalk factors to the summary judgment evidence, which we viewed in the light most favorable to the appellant, we conclude that the summary judgment evidence showed a genuine issue of material fact exists regarding whether it was reasonably foreseeable [*16]  to appellees that the residents of Forest Royale Apartments would be subjected to violent criminal acts, including sexual assault. Thus, a genuine issue of material fact exists as to whether appellees owed appellant a legal duty to protect her and her family from the criminal acts of third parties. \n Having established that there is a genuine issue of material fact as to the legal duty owed by appellees to appellant, we now turn to examining the existence of proximate cause. As previously stated, the two elements of proximate cause are cause-in-fact and foreseeability.  Boys Club of Greater Dallas, 907 S.W.2d at 477. We have decided that a genuine issue of material fact exists with respect to foreseeability. Accordingly, a genuine issue of material fact also exists as to proximate cause. \n We sustain appellant's second point of error and hold that the trial court erred in granting summary judgment. \n  \n Conclusion \n We reverse the judgment of the trial court and remand for further proceedings except as to appellant's causes of action for breach of contract, implied warranty of habitability, and violations of the Deceptive Trade Practices Act. 1  \n  [*17]  Laura C. Higley \n Justice  \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 