Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n Appellant employee and appellees, employer and employees, both sought review of a judgment from the 129th District Court, Harris County (Texas), which granted a partial judgment non obstante veredicto on all issues except negligence and the related damages following a jury verdict for appellant on his claims for malicious prosecution, false arrest or imprisonment, and negligence arising out of criminal theft charges initiated against appellant. \n Overview \n On review, the appellate court determined that the trial court had erred in granting judgment non obstante veredicto on the jury verdict in favor of appellant employee on his malicious prosecution claim. The appellate court found that the evidence presented at trial was sufficient to sustain the jury's findings that appellees, employer and employees, caused the commencement of a criminal prosecution against appellant, that the action lacked probable cause, that the theft case terminated in appellant's favor, and that he was innocent. The appellate court further found that the trial court erred in disregarding the jury's finding on exemplary damages. The appellate court also found that the trial court should have entered judgment in favor of appellant on the false imprisonment findings because the jury was entitled to believe appellant's version of events over appellees' version. The appellate court reversed, concluding that while the trial court erred in rendering judgment for appellant on the negligence claim because there was no evidence of proximate cause, the actual damage award was supported by the malicious prosecution and false imprisonment found by the jury. \n Outcome \n The appellate court reversed the judgment non obstante veredicto against appellant employee on the issues of malicious prosecution, false imprisonment, actual damages, and exemplary damages and remanded for entry of the jury's verdict, finding that the evidence was sufficient to support the jury's findings of liability. Judgment in favor of appellant as to the negligence claim reversed and remanded for a take-nothing judgment. \n Judges: Panel consists of Chief Justice J. Curtiss Brown, and Justices Ellis and Lee.   \n Opinion by: J. CURTISS BROWN  \n Opinion \n  \n  \n OPINION \n George J. McLean (McLean) sued Apache Corporation (Apache), Ann Hammonds (Hammonds), and Gloria Wright (Wright) for malicious prosecution, false arrest or imprisonment, and negligence arising out of criminal charges initiated against McLean for the theft of telephone equipment. Trial was to a jury and the jury answered all questions in favor of McLean. On a motion by Apache, the trial court granted a partial judgment non obstante veredicto on all issues except negligence and the related damages. Both parties have perfected an appeal. McLean raises three points of error complaining the trial court erred in granting judgment non obstante veredicto on the malicious prosecution issues, on the false imprisonment issues and on the issue of exemplary damages. Apache, Hammonds, and Wright raise eight cross-points of error attacking the [*2]  factual sufficiency of the jury's findings and alleging error in the trial court's refusal to submit their question and instruction regarding false arrest. Apache, Hammonds, and Wright also raise twenty-one points of error, which they have briefed as one point of error, complaining the trial judge erred in not granting judgment non obstante veredicto as to the negligence issue. We reverse and render. \n McLean was a Systems Technician for Southwestern Bell. He worked on special equipment in the area of business lines for about 20 years. On February 5 and 6, 1987, he repaired a service line owned by MCI but located at Apache's offices. On February 5, he arrived at Apache at about 2:00 p.m. bringing with him his black case full of tools and a Hewlett Packard measuring set. McLean checked in with the receptionist, Wright, and the office manager, Hammonds, before entering the telephone room to start work. Both women saw the equipment he had with him. At about 3:45 p.m., McLean completed his work for the day, checked out with Hammonds and told Wright goodbye. \n The following morning, Apache's telephone systems man, Weldon Sikes (Sikes) noticed "a customer access panel" (CAP) was missing [*3]  from the telephone room. The CAP was a piece of equipment worth approximately $ 3,165.66 which Apache leased from AT&T. Later that morning, McLean returned to complete his work, carrying only his briefcase of tools. Sikes questioned McLean and accused him of taking the missing CAP. McLean felt Sikes was attempting to prevent him from leaving and got defensive and "a little upset." A scene ensued and Wright summoned Hammonds back from another floor. Hammonds came down and got involved in the fray. Wright had told Sikes and Hammond that she had seen McLean leave with the CAP the preceding day. McLean denied taking the CAP. He offered to go downstairs to his truck, get the Hewlett Packard measuring set he had with him the preceding day, and show it to Hammonds. Hammonds was not interested, and ordered him to leave. \n Sikes reported the CAP missing to AT&T. Hammonds relayed Wright's accusation of McLean to Greg Pyles (Pyles), the head of Apache security. Pyles ordered Hammonds to get a written statement from Wright about the incident and to call the Houston Police Department. By the time it was reported to the Houston Police Department on February 10, 1987, the missing CAP had become [*4]  "the burglary of the CAP." Officer McClellan of the Houston Police Department responded to Hammonds' call, and Sergeant Duane T. Runyan (Runyan) was later assigned to investigate. Runyan was assigned at the request of Chief Michna of the Houston Police Investigations Bureau, apparently because Chief Michna had gotten information on the case either from someone at Apache or from the Chief of Police. Runyan went to Apache and spoke with both Hammonds and Wright. Hammonds provided him with the name of Gary Stokes (Stokes), who was McLean's supervisor at Southwestern Bell. Wright reiterated her story that the missing equipment was identical to what she had seen McLean leave with on February 5th. Runyan followed up by calling Stokes at Southwestern Bell, and speaking with McLean. McLean gave Runyan information about himself. He also informed the officer he had been at Apache working with his Hewlett Packard measuring set and this piece of equipment was probably what the receptionist had seen him leaving with. Runyan checked McLean's criminal record and found it was clean. Runyan spoke with Southwestern Bell's Security Department and arranged to meet with McLean on February 19, 1987. \n On [*5]  the advice of co-workers and friends, McLean retained Kevin Hagerty (Hagerty), a criminal attorney, to accompany him to his meeting with the police.  Since Hagerty had court appearances which conflicted with the meeting on February 19, 1987, he called Runyan to reschedule. He was under the impression that Runyan would re-set the meeting for a later date. Hagerty did meet with McLean later that day to get the facts of the case. \n When the meeting with McLean was cancelled, Runyan decided to go forward with filing charges. The file was reviewed by the District Attorney's office and an arrest warrant was issued. Runyan and another Sergeant went out to McLean's office at Southwestern Bell and arrested him in front of his supervisors and co-workers for the theft of the CAP from Apache. McLean was booked, allowed to call Hagerty, and put in the City of Houston jail at about 4:00 p.m. on February 19th. Hagerty contacted a bail bondsman and put the wheels in motion to get McLean out of jail. McLean was released from jail in the early morning hours of February 20th. He was picked-up and taken home by his supervisor, Stokes. McLean barely had time to clean-up before going back to the courthouse [*6]  to meet Hagerty for his probable cause hearing. \n In the meantime, on February 18, 1987, Mr. Carlson (Carlson), an AT&T technician, called Sikes at Apache and told him that the missing CAP had been located. Carlson stated that an AT&T employee named Minifee had been to Apache and mistaken the CAP for a "maintenance and administration panel" (MAP). Minifee was under orders from his supervisor to bring back to the office any MAPs he found while out on the job. Thus, Minifee took the CAP by mistake and McLean was innocent. Sikes "went and told" Hammonds that McLean was innocent. Hammonds went on vacation on February 18, 1987 and did not return to the office until Monday, February 23, 1987. On Monday, Hammonds called the district attorney's office and told them the charges against McLean should be dropped. The following day, she was able to reach Runyan and tell him what had happened. A week to ten days after this, Runyan called Hagerty and told him the charges against McLean had been dropped. Hagerty then notified McLean that he was off the hook. No one from Apache ever notified McLean that the charges were dropped or apologized for falsely accusing him of the theft. \n In point [*7]  of error one, McLean complains the trial court erred in disregarding the jury's answers to questions three through eight regarding his malicious prosecution cause of action. McLean argues the trial court should have entered judgment in his favor based on the malicious prosecution findings because the evidence was sufficient to support the jury's answers to each of these questions. \n Apache, Hammonds, and Wright argue that the judgment non obstante veredicto was proper because there was no evidence to support the jury's findings as to malicious prosecution. Additionally, in cross-points of error one through four, they allege the evidence was factually insufficient to support the jury's answer to questions three, six, seven, and eight. Therefore, even if there was some evidence to support the jury's findings, reversal of the judgment non obstante veredicto is not required. \n On appeal from the granting of a motion for judgment non obstante veredicto we must determine whether "there is no evidence upon which the jury could have" based its answers to questions three through eight in favor of McLean.  Dowling v. NADW Mktg., Inc., 631 S.W.2d 726, 728 (Tex. 1982). In making this [*8]  determination we must review all the evidence in the "light most favorable to the party against whom the motion [for judgment non obstante veredicto] is sought and every reasonable intendment deducible from the evidence is to be indulged in that party's favor." Id. (quoting Douglass v. Panama, Inc., 504 S.W.2d 776 (Tex. 1974)). If there is at least some evidence to support the jury's findings, the judgment non obstante veredicto cannot stand and must be reversed. See Esquivel v. Watson, 823 S.W.2d 589, 591 (Tex. 1992). \n As to Apache, Hammonds, and Wright's factual insufficiency cross-points, we must review all of the evidence and determine if the weight of the record supports the jury's findings.  Plas-Tex, Inc. v. United States Steel Corp., 772 S.W.2d 442, 445 (Tex. 1989); In re King's Estate, 150 Tex. 662, 664-65, 244 S.W.2d 660, 661 (1951). The jury is the sole judge of the credibility of the witnesses and the evidence, and is entitled to resolve any conflicts or inconsistencies in the evidence. See Benoit v. Wilson, 150 Tex. 273, 239 S.W.2d 792 (Tex. 1951); M.J. Sheridan & Son Co. v. Seminole Pipeline Co., 731 S.W.2d 620 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st [*9]  Dist.] 1987, no writ). \n In a malicious prosecution cause of action there are seven elements that the plaintiff must establish. These are: \n 1. The commencement of a criminal action against plaintiff; \n 2. The prosecution was caused by or through defendant(s); \n 3. The action terminated in plaintiff's favor; \n 4. Plaintiff was innocent; \n 5. There was no probable cause for filing of a criminal complaint; \n 6. The filing of the complaint was done with malice; and \n  \n 7. The criminal proceeding resulted in damage to plaintiff. \n  \n  Bass v. Metzger, 569 S.W.2d 917, 924 (Tex. Civ. App.--Corpus Christi 1978, writ ref'd n.r.e.). \n Based on the facts set out above, the evidence is uncontested that a criminal prosecution was commenced against McLean, that the action terminated in his favor, and that he was innocent. These elements of malicious prosecution, addressed in jury questions four and five were supported by ample evidence in the record. Additionally, there was ample testimony from McLean, and his friends and co-workers about the physical, mental, and emotional affects the prosecution had on him. \n  \n Thus, the first element for our consideration was raised in jury question three [*10]  which asked if Apache, Hammonds, and Wright caused directly or indirectly the commencement of the criminal prosecution against McLean. To establish this element, there is no need for Apache, Hammonds, or Wright "to have signed the complaint" against McLean, or even to have communicated the subject matter of the prosecution to the person who did sign the complaint, "if their making of the statement proximately caused the prosecution that followed." Browning-Ferris Indus., Inc. v. Zavaleta, 827 S.W.2d 336, 344 (Tex. App.--Corpus Christi 1991, writ denied) (quoting Thomas v. Cisneros, 596 S.W.2d 313, 316-17 (Tex. Civ. App.--Austin 1980, writ ref'd n.r.e.)). \n  \n Hammonds testified that when ordered by a superior at Apache to call the police about the missing CAP, she refused to make the call. However, the police records indicate Hammonds was the person who called, reported the crime, and Officer McClellan responded to her call. There was evidence that someone from Apache contacted either Chief Michna or the Chief of Police about putting an investigator on the case. Wright testified she saw the telephone repairman leave with the CAP because she was very observant. She reported [*11]  this information to Sikes and Hammonds, and gave statements to both Officer McClellan and Runyan identifying McLean as the guilty party both by a physical description and by the times of his arrival and departure. Hammonds testified that when she found out she was named as the complaining witness in the case, she tried to call and get the information changed because Wright was the one who saw the crime. However, police records indicate Hammonds remained the complaining witness in their files. The fact that Hammonds and Wright were employees of Apache, who were acting within the course and scope of their employment in taking these actions and making statements to the police, is uncontested. \n The arresting officer, Runyan, testified that in making the affidavit of probable cause and signing the complaint, he was "represent[ing the] complainants in this case because it would be unreasonable in the thousands of investigations that are investigated in Houston to drag all the different citizens down that filed . . . charges . . . to personally see the judge." Additionally, he stated that he made it clear when he initially went out to Apache that he "was not a collection agency to recover [*12]  stolen property; that if [he] or the police department investigated the reported offense, that [they] did expect for a prosecution to take place." Runyan testified he also made it clear in this case that when Apache, Hammonds, and Wright filed a complaint about someone they had better be sure of their facts because "if they provided [him] with the information against another individual, that . . . prosecution would take place." He stated that Wright gave the eye-witness statement relied on for the arrest, and the arrest was not some independent decision he made but was made because Apache and its employees wanted the prosecution to proceed. \n There is not only some evidence, but ample evidence to support the jury's finding that Apache, Hammonds, and Wright caused the commencement of the criminal prosecution against McLean. \n The next two jury questions are inter-related and will be discussed together. Jury question six asked if Apache, Hammonds, and Wright had charges brought against McLean without probable cause while acting within the course and scope of their employment. Jury question seven, which was to be answered only if question six was answered yes, asked if Apache,  [*13]  Hammonds, and Wright acted with malice in causing criminal charges to be brought against McLean. Probable cause was properly defined as "the existence of such facts and circumstances as would excite belief in the mind of a reasonable person, acting on facts within his knowledge, that the person charged was guilty of the crime for which he was prosecuted." See Akin v. Dahl, 661 S.W.2d 917, 920 (Tex. 1983), cert. denied, 466 U.S. 938, 80 L. Ed. 2d 460, 104 S. Ct. 1911 (1984). \n  \n Probable cause is determined from the state of mind of the defendants and the facts as regarded from their point of view.  Browning-Ferris Indus., Inc., 827 S.W.2d at 346; Coniglio v. Snyder, 756 S.W.2d 743, 744 (Tex. App.--Corpus Christi 1988, writ denied). The question is what the prosecuting party honestly believed the facts to be based on events that occurred prior to the commencement of the prosecution, and not events discovered after the termination of the prosecution.  Akin, 661 S.W.2d at 920; Coniglio, 756 S.W.2d at 744. A party who files or causes to be filed a criminal complaint against another person does so with probable cause if, in good faith, she makes a full and  [*14]   fair disclosure of the facts and circumstances known to her, and the complaint is filed on the basis of that disclosure.  Browning-Ferris Indus., Inc., 827 S.W.2d at 345; Ada Oil Co. v. Dillaberry, 440 S.W.2d 902, 910 (Tex. Civ. App.--Houston [14th Dist.] 1969, writ dism'd). Where the party causing the complaint to be filed does not act in good faith by disclosing all material facts known to the party, probable cause does not exist.  Compton v. Calabria, 811 S.W.2d 945, 950 (Tex. App.--Dallas 1991, no writ). \n  \n Malice is defined as ill will, evil motive, or gross indifference or reckless disregard of the rights of others, and may be established by direct or circumstantial evidence. See Fisher v. Beach, 671 S.W.2d 63, 67 (Tex. App.--Dallas 1984, no writ); Akin v. Dahl, 645 S.W.2d 506, 515 (Tex. App.--Amarillo 1982), aff'd, 661 S.W.2d 917 (Tex. 1983), cert. denied, 466 U.S. 938, 80 L. Ed. 2d 460, 104 S. Ct. 1911 (1984). To establish malice a plaintiff need not prove that the defendant acted with personal spite, but may simply prove the defendant committed wrongful acts in reckless disregard of another's rights and with indifference as to [*15]  whether that party would be injured.  Reed v. Lindley, 240 S.W. 348, 351 (Tex. Civ. App.--Fort Worth 1922, no writ). The long established rule in Texas is that the jury may infer malice from the proof of lack of probable cause, even though the jury should not be, as it was not in this case, so instructed.  Biering v. First Nat'l Bank, 69 Tex. 599, 7 S.W. 90, 92 (1888); Diamond Shamrock Corp. v. Ortiz, 753 S.W.2d 238, 241 (Tex. App.--Corpus Christi 1988, writ denied); Fisher, 671 S.W.2d at 67; Akin, 645 S.W.2d at 515. \n  \n A review of the record reveals that both Sikes and Hammonds testified Wright told them she had seen the telephone repairman leave with a piece of equipment. She described the piece of missing equipment in detail and perfectly.  Hammonds was ordered by Pyles to get a written statement from Wright. Wright provided the following written statement: \n On February 5, 1987, Southwestern Bell repairman arrived approximately 3:00 - 3:15 p.m. and departed at 4:20 p.m. He was wearing light colored shirt (Gray or White) khaki pants and carrying a black briefcase. When he left in his right hand was a square black box with flip cards on top and a brief [*16]  case in the left hand. I notice everyone because I have to buzz them in the door. \n /s/ \n On the basis of Wright's statement, Hammonds was ordered to call the police. Despite Hammonds' testimony to the contrary, police records indicate in detail she did call the police and report the crime. \n The police report indicates Officer McClellan answered the call at Apache's offices, located Hammonds, the reportee, and got a description of the missing equipment. The officer learned from Wright that she had seen the line repairman for Southwestern Bell leaving the office "with a black and white box, with a card file on top." According to Officer McClellan's report, Wright further indicated "she did not know what it was until the new replacement machine, C.A.P., was bought from Southwestern Bell." \n The follow-up investigation report by Runyan states: \n Sgt. Runyan . . . drove to the complainant's listed business address, 1500 Citywest. The reportee, Ann Hammonds, provided this Sgt. with the name of "Gary Stokes" (520-0691), the supervisor of the mentioned SW Bell line repairman. \n Sgt. Runyan interviewed the receptionist, Gloria Wright, and was advised by same that she was initially [*17]  unaware of what type of phone equipment had been stolen, however, she realized that when the replacement "Customer Administration Panel" was brought in that it was identical to what she had seen Mr. McLean leave with on 2-5-87. (Ms. Wright stated that she will be available to testify in court). \n Wright's testimony presented via deposition at trial, was that she did not know anything about telephone equipment, and did not even pay enough attention to the equipment McLean was carrying out to remember its dimensions. When questioned about McLean being charged with stealing the CAP, she testified she had never heard of a CAP before and appeared to think it was funny. She stated she was not at the reception desk when McLean entered Apache's offices, and thus, did not see him when he came in and did not know what equipment he had with him. She also did not know how she would have known in her written statement what time he arrived, but testified she imagined "someone told" her. Wright testified that she did see McLean when he left the office because he stopped to talk to her on his way out. She stated she is very observant and noted that he did not appear to be hiding anything. \n Despite [*18]  her written assertion that she notices everyone because she has to buzz them into the office, Wright, when questioned about other telephone repairmen entering the office, such as Minifee or Carlson, stated "I don't sit and stare. I just let them in." She indicated that telephone people just show up with "all this junk hanging off them" and she just lets them in the door. She further testified that the statements in the police report attributed to her were "a baldfaced lie" and in her opinion "policemen are very confused anyway." She stated she still did not know what was missing and could not identify it because she did not know what it was. She never saw the "replacement equipment come back[,]" did not "know what came back," and "saw nothing, period." She was laughing about the information in the police report and stated it was funny that the report said she would be available to testify because the police officer was lying about that also. She took making the statement to the police officer so lightly that she testified she "glanced up at him one time" and did not even bother to take a break from the switch board while giving her statement. She testified that when she got the letter [*19]  informing her that McLean had been falsely arrested and imprisoned because of her, Hammonds', and Apache's actions, she did "nothing" but come in and tell Hammonds she "got a letter" because "it didn't concern [her] then[] and it don't concern [her] now." \n Runyan testified that in his opinion, the probable cause to prosecute in this case was the statement of a reliable and credible witness, Wright. He identified a "reliable and credible witness" as someone who appeared to be telling the truth and who had no prior criminal record. Although Runyan testified that Wright's criminal record was checked and it was apparently clean, Wright testified she been charged, convicted and served probation for driving while intoxicated and more recently arrested for illegal possession of a firearm. Hammonds testified that Wright's criminal past would have been checked out by personnel, but it is not clear whether Hammonds was aware of Wright's prior record and if this information affected her opinion of Wright's credibility. \n However, Hammonds testified she had a bad feeling about the entire situation. She stated she did not believe Wright when she said she saw McLean leave with the CAP,  [*20]  and would not accuse someone of taking something unless she saw them take it with her own eyes. Yet, police records indicate she reported the crime to the police, caused the prosecution process to begin, and sent the officers to get a statement from Wright, the eye-witness. She was not deterred from acting even after Runyan explained that a criminal prosecution would take place, despite the fact that she did not believe Wright and felt the situation was not right. She never informed the officers that she did not believe Wright's statement or doubted her credibility. Hammonds neglected to mention to either Officer McClellan or Runyan that another person from Southwestern Bell was at Apache's offices on February 3 or 4, 1987. Hammonds also failed to tell the officers that she did not even know if the CAP was still at Apache on February 5, 1987 when McLean first arrived. \n Sikes testified he had known McLean years ago when they both worked at Southwestern Bell and he thought McLean was a "loudmouth" who "popped off" all the time. He stated that Wright was positive that McLean took the CAP, that Wright knew what the CAP looked like because she saw it when she went into the telephone [*21]  room to get supplies, and she described the CAP to him. He made it clear that from his experience at Apache no one got into their offices unless they had an access card, had someone specific they were there to see, or had business which they got approved by Hammonds first. He testified that when he found out about McLean's innocence he went immediately and told Hammonds, but took no action personally to notify the authorities. The evidence is uncontested that Sikes learned of McLean's innocence before he was arrested and a phone call to Runyan would have prevented his arrest. Although Hammonds contradicted his testimony, according to Sikes he told Hammonds about McLean's innocence before she went on vacation. Hammonds testified she did not notify authorities about McLean's innocence until after she returned from vacation which was also after his arrest and incarceration. \n McLean testified that both Wright and Hammonds saw him when he came into, and when he left Apache's office, and both witnesses saw the equipment with which he came and left. The evidence is uncontested that a CAP and a Hewlett Packard measuring set look nothing alike. He also testified that Sikes and Hammonds [*22]  had already decided he was guilty when he came back the next day. He explained to Sikes and Hammonds, and again to Runyan, that he had his Hewlett Packard measuring set with him at Apache and did not know anything about the CAP. Despite Hammonds' testimony that she had a sleepless night on February 23, 1987 after she found out McLean was innocent and she was unable to notify Runyan, McLean testified no one from Apache ever notified him the charges were dropped, or even apologized for the incorrect prosecution. \n  \n In summary, the testimony of Wright, Hammonds, Sikes, and McLean was often contradictory. Such conflicting testimony presented a question for the jury to determine, Bass v. Metzger, 569 S.W.2d 917, 922 (Tex. Civ. App.--Corpus Christi 1978, writ ref'd n.r.e.), and the jury is free to believe or disbelieve any or all of the testimony of any witness. See Benoit v. Wilson, 150 Tex. 273, 239 S.W.2d 792 (Tex. 1951); M.J. Sheridan & Son Co. v. Seminole Pipeline Co., 731 S.W.2d 620 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1987, no writ). There is ample evidence from which the jury could have concluded that Wright and Hammonds, as employees of Apache, did not make a full [*23]  and fair disclosure of all material facts known to them to either police officer. See Bass, 569 S.W.2d at 922. Such a conclusion leads properly to the finding of a lack of probable cause from which malice may be inferred. See Diamond Shamrock, 753 S.W.2d at 242. Additionally, this same evidence is sufficient to establish malice independently because it shows gross indifference and a reckless disregard for McLean's rights. See Fisher, 671 S.W.2d at 67. \n  \n Finally, jury question eight asked if Apache, Hammonds, and Wright proximately caused damages to McLean by having criminal charges brought against him. Proximate cause was defined as: \n  \n a cause which in a natural and continuous sequence, produces an[] event, and without which cause the event would not have occurred. In order to be a proximate cause of an event, it should have been reasonably anticipated and foreseen by a person of ordinary care and prudence, in the exercise of ordinary care, that the event or some similar event might reasonably occur as a natural and probable consequence. There may be more than one proximate cause of an event. \n Runyan testified he made it very clear when he came out to investigate [*24]  that a prosecution would take place if Hammonds filed a complaint. Apache, Hammonds, and Wright argue that Runyan arrested McLean because he was defensive and uncooperative with the officer. However, Runyan testified it was reasonable for an innocent person accused of a felony to be defensive and to get an attorney before meeting with police. Although Runyan testified a charge "might not" have occurred if McLean had showed up for the February 19th meeting, his further testimony made it clear his primary basis for arresting McLean was Wright's statement and Hammonds' instigation of the prosecution. McLean's attorney, Hagerty, testified he was under the impression the meeting with police would be reset because cooperation between defense attorneys and the police in scheduling their meetings is common. He stated in his experience he had never seen a defendant with a good record and ties to the community, who was attempting to cooperate with police, be arrested the way McLean was for a non-violent crime. \n This evidence in conjunction with the evidence discussed in depth above is ample to establish that Apache, through its employees Hammonds and Wright, were well aware of the fact McLean's [*25]  prosecution would ensue and he would suffer damages as a result. The jury's finding of proximate cause is supported by the evidence. \n There was certainly some evidence to support the jury's answers to each of questions three through eight. Additionally, the trial judge made it plain on the record that he did not find malicious prosecution because he found no malice. According to the trial judge, "gross indifference is not malicious prosecution . . . . [and t]hat's what this Supreme Court thinks." Such a statement was an incorrect assessment of the applicable law. The trial court improperly granted judgment non obstante veredicto as to jury questions three through eight. McLean's point of error one is sustained. The evidence is also factually sufficient to support the jury's findings and therefore, cross-points of error one through four brought by Apache, Hammonds, and Wright are overruled. \n In point of error two, McLean complains the trial court erred in disregarding the jury's answer to question eleven because the evidence was sufficient to support the jury's exemplary damages finding. He alleges it was improper for the trial court to render judgment non obstante [*26]  veredicto and fail to render judgment in his favor for exemplary damages in the amount of $ 250,000 as found by the jury. \n Apache, Hammonds, and Wright argue the trial court acted properly because there was no evidence to support the jury's finding of exemplary damages. Additionally, in cross-point of error five they allege the evidence is factually insufficient to support the jury's exemplary damages finding. \n  \n In reviewing these points of error, we will utilize the same standards of review set out under point of error one and cross-points of error one through four. Jury question eleven asked what sum of money, if any, should be assessed against Apache as exemplary or punishment damages for the actions of Apache and/or its employees. \n  \n We have upheld the jury's findings establishing the criminal prosecution of McLean as a malicious prosecution. The rule in Texas is well established "that a suit for malicious prosecution admits the recovery of exemplary damages in the nature of a penalty." Akin, 645 S.W.2d at 518 (citing McManus v. Wallis, 52 Tex. 534, 546 (1880)). The jury awarded McLean $ 101,200 in actual damages, and $ 250,000 in exemplary damages. This is a [*27]  ratio of approximately two and a half to one, and is a reasonable proportion between exemplary and actual damages. See Alamo Nat'l Bank v. Kraus, 616 S.W.2d 908, 910 (Tex. 1981). McLean's point of error two is sustained and cross-point of error five brought by Apache, Hammonds, and Wright is overruled. \n In point of error three, McLean argues the trial court erred in disregarding the jury's answers to questions one and two regarding false imprisonment. He argues the trial court should have entered judgment in his favor based on the false imprisonment findings because the evidence was sufficient to support the jury's answers to both of these questions. \n Apache, Hammonds, and Wright argue that the judgment non obstante veredicto was proper because there were no pleadings or evidence to support the jury's findings as to false imprisonment. Additionally, in cross-points of error six and seven, they argue the evidence was factually insufficient to support a jury finding of false imprisonment or false arrest. In cross-point of error eight, Apache, Hammonds, and Wright allege the trial court erred when it refused to submit their offered question and instruction regarding false [*28]  arrest. \n  \n A review of the transcript reveals that McLean plead a cause of action for false arrest. False arrest is simply a means of committing false imprisonment. See Whirl v. Kern, 407 F.2d 781 (5th Cir. 1968), cert. denied, 396 U.S. 901, 24 L. Ed. 2d 177, 90 S. Ct. 210 (1969). In order to establish civil liability for false arrest or false imprisonment, a plaintiff must show a wrongful interference with his freedom.  Montgomery Ward & Co. v. Garza, 660 S.W.2d 619 (Tex. App.--Corpus Christi 1983, no writ). The essential elements of false arrest or false imprisonment are a willful detention of the plaintiff's person, against the plaintiff's consent, and such detention is without the authority of law. Id. See Sears, Roebuck & Co. v. Castillo, 693 S.W.2d 374 (Tex. 1985); Cronen v. Nix, 611 S.W.2d 651, 653 (Tex. Civ. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1980, writ ref'd n.r.e.), cert. denied, 454 U.S. 833, 70 L. Ed. 2d 112, 102 S. Ct. 132 (1981). Thus, McLean's allegations were sufficient to put Apache, Hammonds, and Wright on notice as to false imprisonment. \n  \n A review of the charge reveals jury question one inquired whether McLean was falsely imprisoned.  [*29]  See Briseno v. Martin, 561 S.W.2d 794, 796 (Tex. 1977). The trial court's definition under this question properly set out all three elements of false arrest or false imprisonment and is the definition long used in Texas cases. See Skillern & Sons, Inc. v. Stewart, 379 S.W.2d 687, 691 (Tex. Civ. App.--Fort Worth 1964, writ ref'd n.r.e.) (citing Waggoman v. Fort Worth Well Mach. & Supply Co., 124 Tex. 325, 76 S.W.2d 1005 (1934)). The trial court's definition is clarified by a more extensive definition of false imprisonment which has been used with approval in Texas since at least 1930. See Newton v. Rhoads Bros., 24 S.W.2d 378, 379 (Tex. Comm'n App. 1930, holding approved); Skillern & Sons, Inc., 379 S.W.2d at 691. The trial court's question and definitions properly presented, and controlled the disposition of, the issue of false imprisonment. See Skillern & Sons, Inc., 379 S.W.2d at 691. Therefore, no error occurred and the trial court did not abuse its discretion in refusing to submit the question and instruction offered by Apache, Hammonds, and Wright. \n Utilizing the same standards of review set out under point of error one and cross-points of error one [*30]  through four, we will now review the sufficiency of the evidence. Jury question one asked whether McLean, on or about February 6, 1987, was falsely imprisoned by Apache and/or its employees acting within the course and scope of their employment. Jury question two, which was predicated upon a yes answer to question one, asked whether the false imprisonment of McLean was a proximate cause of his damages. \n  \n Unlawful detention for false imprisonment purposes exists if a person is prevented by violence, threats or any other means "from moving from place to place or in the direction he wishes to go." Kroger Co. v. Warren, 420 S.W.2d 218, 2 2 (Tex. Civ. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1967, no writ). See Skillern & Sons, Inc., 379 S.W.2d at 691. The court in the Newton case explained that false imprisonment "may arise without an actual arrest, assault, or imprisonment, and may be committed by words alone or by acts alone, or by both." Newton, 24 S.W.2d at 379. "Any intentional conduct that results in the placing of a person in a position where he cannot exercise his will in going where he may lawfully go constitutes false imprisonment." Id. One complaining of false imprisonment [*31]  is entitled to recover reasonable compensation for mental suffering which includes humiliation, shame, and fright.  J.C. Penney Co. v. Duran, 479 S.W.2d 374, 382 (Tex. Civ. App.--San Antonio 1972, writ ref'd n.r.e.). \n McLean testified he returned to Apache on the morning of February 6, 1987, and was told by Wright that Hammonds wanted to see him. McLean stated he could tell from Wright's angry tone that something was wrong. Hammonds came out to the lobby and told McLean there was a telephone man waiting to see him. McLean testified Hammonds also had an angry tone of voice which reinforced his sense that something was wrong. McLean went on into the telephone room and Sikes was waiting for him there. According to McLean, Sikes was sitting in a chair in the center of the room as he entered. McLean stated that Sikes was mad and very loud as he questioned McLean about the missing CAP. McLean went on about his work in the telephone room while Sikes sat and watched him. Sikes continued to question McLean about the CAP and accused him of taking the CAP. McLean attempted to explain that he did not know anything about the CAP, and did not notice any equipment fitting that description [*32]  when he was at Apache the day before. McLean testified this conversation went on in an accusatory manner for about a half hour. Sikes refused to believe McLean and told him that Wright had seen him leave with the CAP the preceding day. \n McLean stated that after he completed his work he "started to leave [but] Sikes jumped up" and verbally tried to prevent him from leaving. McLean testified he felt intimidated and like he could not turn and walk away. McLean managed to get out of the telephone room into the reception room and Hammonds was standing there. At this point in time, McLean stated Sikes began striking him in the chest and continued to accuse him of taking the CAP. He described Sikes as a man about his age who was heavier than him. Hammonds just stood and watched the scene. McLean testified that Sikes had apparently lost it and he had to get real loud with Sikes to prevent Sikes from continuing to hit him. \n McLean testified that Hammonds got involved in the melee telling him that she knew what he had done. He was told that they had called security and that they knew he had already covered his tracks. McLean asked Hammonds if she would let him go down to his truck [*33]  and get his Hewlett Packard measuring set so she could she the equipment he had with him on February 5, 1987. Hammonds said she did not want to see it and that she knew he had taken the CAP. Hammonds told him that Wright said she saw him leave with the CAP. McLean stated that although Wright did not get involved, she heard most of the conversation. \n At this point in time, McLean did not know what to do, so he asked permission to use the telephone and call Stokes, his supervisor. When he placed the call, Stokes was already aware that McLean had been accused of taking a piece of equipment. Stokes advised McLean to leave Apache and come back to the Southwestern Bell office. \n According to Wright's testimony she was not at the reception desk when McLean came in on February 6, 1987. She stated when she returned to her desk Sikes and McLean were in the reception area. They started a conversation, which she did not hear any of, went into the telephone room and closed the door. She could hear voices coming from the telephone room but could not understand what they were saying, because she did not pay any attention. When Sikes and McLean came out of the telephone room, Wright stated [*34]  she did not hear any conversation, "she paid them no attention[,]" and she "didn't know where they went, nothing." At some point Hammonds joined the two men in the reception room but Wright was not clear on when this occurred. However, she was clear that with three people in her little reception area she saw nothing, heard nothing and knew nothing. She stated that all she knew was that McLean and Sikes came through her reception room and headed down the hall one way or the other. She testified that she did not know when McLean left that day because she does not watch who is going out. \n Sikes testified that McLean was already in the telephone room when he came into the room. Sikes, in his testimony, denied ever accusing McLean of taking anything. He denied ever trying to prevent McLean from leaving the room. According to Sikes, he held his hand up at McLean and said "hey, wait a minute" in an effort to calm McLean down. He described McLean as working toward the back wall of the room while he was standing between McLean and the door of the telephone room. Sikes did admit to telling McLean that Wright had stated she saw him leave with the CAP. He testified that after this statement [*35]  McLean went out into the reception room frantically looking for Hammonds. Sikes stated that Hammonds just happened to walk up, and McLean tried to explain about his Hewlett Packard measuring set and that he did not take anything. Sikes denied ever striking McLean in the chest and stated he was not upset with McLean. He indicated that Hammonds was nice to McLean and after talking with her McLean just left Apache's offices. \n Hammonds testified that she was called up to the 5th or 6th floor before McLean arrived on February 6, 1987. Sometime later, Wright called her and told her there was a problem in the phone room and she had better come back downstairs. According to Hammonds, when she arrived Sikes was out in the hallway and McLean was still in the telephone room. Sikes reported that he had tried to talk to McLean about the CAP, and McLean had gotten so upset and defensive he could not get anything out of him. Hammonds testified she went to the door of the telephone room and told McLean they were not accusing him of taking anything. However, she stated it was obvious to her that McLean was terribly upset. She testified she was very calm and nice to McLean and carried on a five [*36]  minute conversation with him. According to her testimony, McLean never came out of the telephone room. She stated he tried to explain to her about his Hewlett Packard measuring set and offered to go get it, but she told him to just go ahead and leave. Then she left the area and went to her office accompanied by Sikes. \n Once again, the jury was presented with four different stories creating conflicting testimony as to the conversation and events that occurred. This presented a fact question for the jury to answer based upon its determination of the witnesses' credibility. The jury was just as entitled to believe McLean's version of the events as it would have been to believe Sikes', Hammonds', or Wright's version. \n The trial court erred in entering judgment non obstante veredicto as to jury questions one and two. McLean's point of error three is sustained. The evidence is sufficient to support the jury's answers to questions one and two. Therefore, cross-points of error six through eight, raised by Apache, Hammonds, and Wright are overruled. \n As to the appeal brought by Apache, Hammonds, and Wright, they raise twenty-one points of error some of which are repetitive. These [*37]  points of error are briefed and argued as one point of error, providing the Court with little assistance in making a disposition of their complaints. \n In points of error one through seven, and fourteen through nineteen, Apache, Hammonds, and Wright complain of the trial court's submission of jury question nine regarding their negligence. They argue submission of question nine was improper under controlling principles of Texas law, and the evidence is legally and factually insufficient to support the submission of question nine or the corresponding award of actual damages. \n Question nine asked the jury to find from a preponderance of the evidence whether the negligence, if any, of Apache, Hammonds, and Wright proximately caused damages to McLean. Although McLean plead negligence in his second amended petition, each act of negligence he alleged was also conduct by Apache, Hammonds, and Wright which caused the instigation and continuation of his malicious prosecution. Under the facts of this case we are unable to find any separate and distinct damages attributable to McLean's negligence cause of action. The negligence damages proven by McLean are the same damages that he has already [*38]  been compensated for under his malicious prosecution cause of action. Thus, it was improper for the trial court to submit a negligence question in this case. However, the award of actual damages is amply supported by the malicious prosecution and false imprisonment found by the jury. Since our finding of no separate negligence damages disposes of Apache's, Hammonds', and Wright's complaints regarding McLean's negligence recovery, we do not address their allegations that a negligence recovery is never proper in a malicious prosecution case in Texas. See Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Medina, 814 S.W.2d 71, 73-74 (Tex. App.--Corpus Christi 1991, writ denied) (specifically stating it was not addressing whether a cause of action for negligence is barred where elements of malicious prosecution are established). Points of error one through seven, and fourteen through nineteen, brought by Apache, Wright, and Hammonds are sustained. \n In points of error eight through twelve, twenty, and twenty-one, Apache, Hammonds, and Wright complain the trial court erred in refusing to submit its questions and instructions regarding McLean's negligence cause of action. Due to our disposition of their [*39]  points of error one through seven, and fourteen through nineteen disallowing McLean's recovery for negligence damages, there is no need for the Court to address these complaints regarding the questions and instructions on negligence tendered by Apache, Hammonds, and Wright. Further, a review of their proposed question, allegedly addressing comparative negligence, reveals the question was not tendered in substantially correct form to raise the comparative negligence complaint. See Tex. R. Civ. P. 277. Additionally, Apache's, Hammonds', and Wright's proposed instructions would not have assisted the jury to properly answer any question. See Harris v. Harris, 765 S.W.2d 798, 801 (Tex. App.--Houston [14th Dist.] 1988, writ denied). Thus, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying their submission. Points of error eight through twelve, twenty, and twenty-one, raised by Apache, Hammonds, and Wright are overruled. \n In point of error thirteen, Apache, Hammonds, and Wright complain the trial court failed to instruct the jury on how to apply the standard negligence definitions submitted. However, they failed to object to the charge on this ground at trial, and they [*40]  failed to tender to the trial court such an instruction in substantially correct written form as required. See Tex. R. Civ. P. 278. Point of error thirteen is overruled. \n The trial court's judgment on the verdict in favor of McLean as to the negligence issue is reversed and rendered that McLean take nothing on his negligence cause of action. The trial court's judgment non obstante veredicto against McLean on the issues of malicious prosecution, false imprisonment, the related actual damages, and exemplary damages is reversed and rendered to give effect to the jury's verdict in all respects. The judgment of the trial court is reversed and rendered. \n J. Curtiss Brown \n Chief Justice \n Judgment rendered and Opinion filed June 3, 1993. \n Panel consists of Chief Justice J. Curtiss Brown, and Justices Ellis and Lee.   \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 