Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n Appellant client sought review of the summary judgment granted appellee attorney in the malpractice claim filed in the 334th District Court, Harris County (Texas). Appellant claimed appellee's negligence in failing to prepare his defense forced him to plead guilty to one count of federal procurement fraud and one count of obstruction of justice. \n Overview \n Appellant client sought review of the summary judgment granted appellee attorney in the malpractice suit he brought claiming appellee's negligence in failing to prepare his defense forced him to plead guilty to one count each of federal procurement fraud and obstruction of justice. Affirming the summary judgment, the court noted that it was proper when appellee offered summary judgment proof showing that at least one element of appellant's cause of action had been established conclusively against him. At trial, appellant's burden would have been to prove that he had a meritorious defense, and that but for appellee's negligence, his defense could have been proved and would have caused a different result. However, the court noted that the certified copy of the transcription of the testimony from the criminal proceeding showed that appellant told the judge he was pleading guilty freely and voluntarily, knowing the consequences; he was estopped from asserting otherwise. \n Outcome \n The court affirmed the summary judgment granted appellee attorney in the malpractice suit brought by appellant client claiming that appellee's negligence in failing to prepare his defense forced him to plead guilty. The court noted that appellant could not have shown the existence of a fact question that appellee's representation proximately caused his damage; he admitted his guilt and was estopped from asserting otherwise. \n Judges: Panel Consists of Justices Robertson, Cannon, and Draughn.   \n Opinion by: SAM ROBERTSON  \n Opinion \n  \n  \n OPINION \n This appeal is from a summary judgment in a legal malpractice suit. Appellant, Terry Campbell ("Campbell") sued his former criminal defense attorney, appellee, Edward A. Mallett ("Mallett"), claiming Mallett's negligence in failing to prepare his defense forced him to plead guilty. The trial court granted summary judgment in favor of Mallett and Campbell now appeals in three points of error. We affirm. \n Campbell, his sister, a business associate, and two of Campbell's companies were indicted on several counts of federal procurement fraud and obstruction of justice relating to that fraud. In exchange for dismissal of the bulk of the charges and the government's agreement not to seek stringent application of the federal sentencing guidelines, Campbell pled guilty to one count of fraud and one count of obstruction. His sister [*2]  and two companies, represented by other counsel, also pled guilty that day. Campbell was subsequently sentenced to five years imprisonment. \n Campbell filed this malpractice action against Mallett, alleging he was coerced into pleading guilty, breach of warranty under DTPA, violation of the disciplinary rules, and seeking damages for himself, his wife and children. Campbell claimed that Mallett had failed to properly prepare his defense so that he was unable to proceed to trial and had no choice but to plead guilty. On September 18, 1992, partial summary judgment was granted in favor of Mallett as to all parties and causes of action other than Campbell's negligence claim. The trial court granted summary judgment in favor of Mallett on the remaining negligence claim on January 19, 1993. Campbell has appealed only the granting of summary judgment on his negligence claim. \n The standards we apply in reviewing a trial court's grant of a summary judgment are well established. These standards are: \n 1. The movant for summary judgment has the burden of showing there is no genuine issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law; \n 2. In deciding whether [*3]  there is a disputed material fact issue precluding summary judgment, we must take evidence favorable to the non-movant as true; and \n 3. We must indulge every reasonable inference in favor of the non-movant and resolve any doubts in his favor. \n  Nixon v. Mr. Property Management Co., 690 S.W.2d 546, 548-49 (Tex. 1985). \n A defendant who moves for summary judgment has the burden of showing as a matter of law that no material issue of fact exists for the plaintiff's cause of action. Griffin v. Rowden, 654 S.W.2d 435, 534-36 (Tex. 1983). Summary judgment for the defendant is proper if he offers summary judgment proof showing that at least one element of the plaintiff's cause of action has been established conclusively against the plaintiff.  Gibbs v. General Motors Corp., 450 S.W.2d 827, 828 (Tex. 1970). \n Campbell asserts in his first point of error that the trial court erred in granting summary judgment because the motion was not well founded. We disagree. \n An attorney malpractice action in Texas is based on negligence.  Cosgrove v. Grimes, 774 S.W.2d 662, 664 (Tex. 1989). The attorney is held to the standard of care that a reasonably prudent attorney would exercise.  [*4]  Id. To prevail in his legal malpractice case, Campbell would have to prove Mallett breached his duty to him, and the breach proximately caused his damages.  Id. at 664-65. The same standards apply to legal malpractice actions arising from either a civil or a criminal suit.  Tijerina v. Wennermark, 700 S.W.2d 342, 344 (Tex. App.--San Antonio 1985, no writ), overruled on other grounds by Cosgrove, 744 S.W.2d at 665 (subjective good faith standard replaced by objective exercise of professional judgment standard); see also Wright v. Lewis, 777 S.W.2d 520, 522 (Tex. App.--Corpus Christi 1989, writ denied). \n Campbell's burden at trial would be to prove that he had a meritorious defense; that, but for Mallett's negligence, his defense could have been proved and would have caused a different result at trial.  Heath v. Herron, 732 S.W.2d 748, 753 (Tex. App.--Houston [14th Dist.] 1987, writ denied). As a matter of law, a person who admits guilt of a crime and remains convicted of that crime cannot establish that any actions or omissions by his attorney were the proximate cause of the conviction.  Peeler v. Hughes & Luce, 868 S.W.2d 823, 831 (Tex. App.--Dallas 1993, writ requested);  [*5]  Tijerina, 700 S.W.2d at 344. Instead, the defendant's illegal conduct is the proximate cause of the criminal proceedings. Proof of innocence is not an additional element in a cause of action for malpractice, but it is a prerequisite to being able to prove one of the elements of negligence. A criminal defendant must prove innocence before he can prove that his attorney's actions were the proximate cause of his damages.  Peeler, 868 S.W.2d at 832. \n Mallett attached to his motion for summary judgment a certified copy of the transcription of the testimony from the criminal proceeding where Campbell, his sister and his two corporations entered guilty pleas. Campbell's testimony established that Mallett was entitled to judgment as a matter of law. At the March 26, 1990 hearing, the trial judge asked the U.S. Attorney to state the terms of the plea agreement, and Campbell confirmed that those were the terms that had been discussed with him. Before accepting Campbell's plea, the judge informed Campbell of his constitutional and statutory rights. Campbell testified that he understood each of his rights and that by pleading guilty, he was giving up his right to trial by jury, to require [*6]  the government to prove its case, and to call witnesses in his own behalf. He affirmed that he still wanted to plead guilty. \n The judge asked Campbell if he had sufficient time to fully discuss the case with his attorney and whether he was satisfied with his attorney's representation. Campbell answered "Yes" to each question. Campbell told the judge he was pleading guilty "freely and voluntarily, and knowing full well of the possible consequences that could result from [his plea]." He told the judge that no one threatened, coerced or forced him to plead guilty. \n The judge then had the U.S. Attorney describe the conduct of which Campbell was accused and what the evidence would show if the case proceeded to trial. After hearing the specific factual allegations for each offense, the judge asked Campbell if these facts were a true and accurate representation of how the events transpired, and Campbell replied, "Yes, sir, that's correct." \n The summary judgment proof established that Campbell admitted under oath that he had done what the government contended. He may not be permitted to swear under oath that he was satisfied with his representation and his plea was freely and [*7]  voluntarily made, and now attempt to claim that his attorney was negligent and his plea was coerced. Having taken a contrary position under oath, Campbell is judicially estopped from now claiming coercion. See Miles v. Plumbing Servs. of Houston, Inc., 668 S.W.2d 509, 512 (Tex. App.--Houston [14th Dist.] 1984, writ ref'd n.r.e.); see also Dover v. Baker, Brown, Sharman & Parker, 859 S.W.2d 441, 447 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1993, no writ) (in malpractice action after conviction for tax evasion and related offenses, collateral estoppel bars assertion of reliance on advice of attorneys as defense) (citing McCormick v. Texas Commerce Bank National Ass'n, 751 S.W.2d 887, 889-90 (Tex. App.--Houston [14th Dist.] 1988, writ denied), cert. denied, 491 U.S. 910, 105 L. Ed. 2d 706, 109 S. Ct. 3199 (1989) (defense of inadequate representation barred by estoppel in later civil suit; proper forum is by appeal of criminal conviction)). Accordingly, Campbell's prior sworn testimony proved as a matter of law he had no meritorious defense to the criminal charges. \n Once the movant has met his burden to establish the absence of an essential element of plaintiff's cause of action,  [*8]  the burden shifts to the non-movant to offer some evidence of the existence of that element to raise a genuine issue of fact.  Goldberg v. U.S. Shoe Corp., 775 S.W.2d 751, 752 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1989, writ denied). Campbell offered as summary judgment proof of a copy of the transcript of a hearing in response to his motion to withdraw his plea, filed some two to three months after he entered his guilty plea. The testimony from the hearing showed: Campbell swore under oath he was innocent of the charges; he had professed his innocence to Mallett and Mallett did not believe him; Mallett admitted that he had done little investigation or preparation for trial in anticipation of a plea agreement; and Mallett had strongly urged Campbell to plead guilty. \n After hearing all the testimony, the judge refused to allow withdrawal of the plea, noting that Campbell had two competent, qualified criminal defense attorneys representing him, and the court had thoroughly admonished him before entry of his plea. The judge acknowledged that the court took careful pains to assure itself that Campbell knew the consequences of his plea, there were no additional factors forcing Campbell [*9]  to plead, and the court was satisfied that it was a knowing and voluntary plea. The judge found that Campbell understood the questions he had been asked and that he gave his answers under oath. \n Campbell also attached an affidavit from his attorney to his response to the motion for summary judgment. This affidavit does not contain an expert opinion that Mallett did not meet the standard of care, but was included to authenticate the testimony from the hearing on the plea withdrawal motion and to establish that the trial court had improperly deemed admissions against Campbell. The affidavit does not establish the attorney's basis for personal knowledge of any of the facts surrounding Mallett's representation of Campbell. Mallett objected to the affidavit on the ground that it merely contained a conclusion that a fact question exists. We find that the affidavit is conclusory and not based on personal knowledge and is, therefore, incompetent to controvert Mallett's summary judgment proof. Tex. R. Civ. P. 166a(f); Anderson v. Snider, 808 S.W.2d 54, 55 (Tex. 1991). We conclude that Campbell's summary judgment proof actually supports the judgment and fails to raise a fact issue as to [*10]  the proximate cause of his damages. We hold that the trial court did not err in granting summary judgment and overrule Campbell's first point of error. \n In his second point of error, Campbell complains that Mallett presented no proper summary judgment evidence. We disagree. No expert testimony was required in this case because the summary judgment did not turn on the standard of care. Here, summary judgment was proper because Mallett established that Campbell could not prove an essential element of his cause of action. A layperson would need no assistance to understand the summary judgment proof showing that Campbell did not have a meritorious defense; thus, no expert testimony was necessary. See Johnson v. DeLay, 809 S.W.2d 552, 555 (Tex. App.--Corpus Christi 1991, writ denied); Mosaga, S.A. v. Baker & Botts, 780 S.W.2d 3, 5-6 (Tex. App.--Eastland 1989, no writ). \n Campbell complains that summary judgment was based on deemed admissions that the trial court allowed to be withdrawn prior to entry of the summary judgment. While it is true that the summary judgment motion refers to the admissions as part of its supporting proof, it did not rely on them exclusively. The motion [*11]  is supported by the transcript from the hearing on Campbell's entry of his guilty plea. This transcript is authenticated by an affidavit from Mallett's attorney. Contrary to Campbell's allegations, this affidavit is not offered as an expert affidavit or as proof of facts within the attorney's personal knowledge. We conclude that the summary judgment motion is supported by sufficient proof to establish Mallett's entitlement to judgment as a matter of law. We overrule Campbell's second point of error. \n Campbell complains in his third point of error that the trial court erred in relying upon Tijerina v. Wennermark as controlling law. Tijerina was a summary judgment case based upon very similar facts. Tijerina pled guilty to the criminal charges against him and then attempted to claim that his attorney had committed malpractice. Tijerina alleged that he pled guilty under duress because his attorney threatened to withdraw unless he agreed to the plea bargain. The Tijerina court held that Tijerina's sworn testimony at the time of his guilty plea totally refuted his allegations of malpractice and granted summary judgment. 700 S.W.2d at 348. Campbell argues that Tijerina was erroneously [*12]  decided because it relies on a case where the legal malpractice claim was tried by a jury, and it is inappropriate to use its holding as a standard in a summary judgment case. See Rice v. Forestier, 415 S.W.2d 711, 713 (Tex. Civ. App.--San Antonio 1967, writ ref'd n.r.e.). We find that this distinction is immaterial to our reasoning in this case, and follow the Tijerina holding. \n In the context of a summary judgment, the defendant/attorney is entitled to judgment if he can establish that the plaintiff/client cannot prove one element of its cause of action. As pointed out in Tijerina, one element of a legal malpractice action is that the attorney's actions proximately caused damage to the plaintiff. Once the attorney has established that the client admitted his guilt under oath, i.e., he has no defense to the criminal charges, the burden shifts to the non-movant to establish the existence of a material fact question. He is not required to prove his defense, but merely to demonstrate the existence of a fact question on the establishment of his defense. Campbell has not met this burden. Campbell cannot show the existence of a fact question that Mallett's representation proximately [*13]  caused him damage because he had no defense to the criminal prosecution; he admitted his guilt and is estopped to assert otherwise. We overrule Campbell's third point of error. \n We affirm the summary judgment granted by the trial court. \n Sam Robertson \n Justice \n Judgment rendered and Opinion filed April 28, 1994. \n Panel Consists of Justices Robertson, Cannon, and Draughn.   \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 