Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n Appellant patient sued appellee doctors in the 160th District Court, Dallas County (Texas) for medical malpractice, failure to obtain informed consent, and gross negligence. The trial court granted summary judgment to two of the patient's doctors. The patient appealed the judgment. \n Overview \n The patient alleged that three doctors negligently performed facial plastic surgery on her and failed to explain all the risks and complications of the surgical procedures. One doctor argued that there was no evidence of any negligence on her part and that she had no duty to provide the patient with informed consent because the patient was not that doctor's patient. Another doctor argued that the patient was unable to raise a material issue of fact as to her claims against him. On appeal, the court found the patient failed to raise an issue of material fact on the breach of the appropriate standard of care and proximate cause elements of her medical negligence, gross negligence, and failure to obtain informed consent causes of action against the first doctor. Further, the patient in her depositions failed to create a fact issue on the standard of care element on the malpractice claim against the other doctor. However, the patient did raise a material fact issue on the breach of appropriate standard of care and proximate cause elements of the informed consent claim against the other doctor. Finally, the patient failed to produce evidence of gross negligence by the other doctor. \n Outcome \n Judgment was affirmed as to the summary judgment award to the first doctor. Judgment was affirmed as to the summary judgment award on the medical malpractice and gross negligence claims against the other doctor. Judgment was reversed and remanded as to the informed consent claim against the other doctor. \n Judges: Before Chief Justice Thomas and Justices James and Spector. 1  Opinion by Justice Spector. \n Opinion by: ROSE SPECTOR \n Opinion \n  \n  \n Opinion by Justice Spector \n In this medical malpractice case, appellant Constance Christie ("Christie") complains in three points of error about the trial court's granting of "no evidence" summary judgment motions in favor of appellees Jim Gilmore, M.D. and Jim E. Gilmore, M.D., P.A. (collectively, "Gilmore") and Sue Ellen Cox, M.D. ("Cox"), as well as the striking of an affidavit from her medical expert. We affirm the trial court's judgment in favor of Cox and affirm, in part, and reverse and remand, in part, the judgment concerning Gilmore. \n  \n FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY \n In her June 1997 petition, Christie alleged that Gilmore and Cox negligently performed facial [*2]  plastic surgery on her and failed to explain all the risks and complications of the surgical procedures. The petition also alleged the defendants' actions rose to the level of gross negligence. \n In December 1998, Cox filed a "no evidence" motion for summary judgment asserting that there is no evidence of any negligence on the part of Cox and no evidence Cox had any duty to provide Christie with informed consent because Christie was not Cox's patient. By order dated March 25, 1999, the trial court granted Cox's "no evidence" motion without specifying the reason. \n In September 1999, Gilmore filed a "no evidence" motion for summary judgment asserting that Christie was unable to raise a material issue of fact as to the "negligence" and "cause-in-fact" elements of her ordinary negligence claim and was unable to provide any evidence of gross negligence or the essential elements of a negligence cause of action for failure to provide informed consent. By order dated December 16, 1999, the trial court granted Gilmore's "no evidence" motion without specifying the reason. Christie timely appealed both orders. \n  \n STANDARD OF REVIEW \n When a motion is presented under rule 166a(i) asserting [*3]  there is no evidence of one or more essential elements of the nonmovant's claims upon which the nonmovant would have the burden of proof at trial, the nonmovant bears the burden to present enough evidence to be entitled to a trial, i.e., evidence that raises a genuine fact issue on the challenged elements. Gen. Mills Rests., Inc. v. Tex. Wings, Inc., 12 S.W.3d 827, 832 (Tex. App.-Dallas 2000, no pet.); see also TEX. R. CIV. P. 166a cmt. If the nonmovant is unable to provide enough evidence, the trial judge must grant the motion.  Gen. Mills, 12 S.W.3d at 832. \n Because a no-evidence summary judgment is essentially a pretrial directed verdict, we apply the same legal sufficiency standard in reviewing a no-evidence summary judgment as we apply in reviewing a directed verdict. Id. at 832-33; see Roth v. FFP Operating Partners, L.P., 994 S.W.2d 190, 195 (Tex. App.-Amarillo 1999, pet. denied); Jackson v. Fiesta Mart, Inc., 979 S.W.2d 68, 70 (Tex. App.-Austin 1998, no pet.). Thus, our task as an appellate court is to determine whether the nonmovant produced any evidence of probative force to raise a fact [*4]  issue on the material questions presented.  Gen. Mills, 12 S.W.3d at 832; Roth, 994 S.W.2d at 195; Jackson, 979 S.W.2d at 70. We consider all the evidence in the light most favorable to the party against whom the no-evidence summary judgment was rendered, disregarding all contrary evidence and inferences.  Gen. Mills, 12 S.W.3d at 832; see Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc. v. Havner, 953 S.W.2d 706, 711 (Tex.1997). A no-evidence summary judgment is improperly granted if the nonmovant presents more than a scintilla of probative evidence to raise a genuine issue of material fact. Gen. Mills, 12 S.W.3d at 832; Jackson, 979 S.W.2d at 70-71. More than a scintilla of evidence exists when the evidence "rises to a level that would enable reasonable and fair-minded people to differ in their conclusions." Gen. Mills, 12 S.W.3d at 832 (quoting Merrell Dow, 953 S.W.2d at 711). \n  \n APPLICABLE LAW \n Four elements are essential for a plaintiff's cause of action for negligence in a medical malpractice case: (1) a legally cognizable duty requiring the [*5]  defending party to conform to a certain standard of conduct for the protection of another against an unreasonable risk; (2) a failure by the defending party to conform to the required standard; (3) resulting actual injury to the complaining party; and (4) a reasonably close causal connection between the defending party's conduct and the plaintiff's resulting injury.  Price v. Hurt, 711 S.W.2d 84, 86 (Tex. App.-Dallas 1986, no writ). This includes a claim against a doctor for failure to obtain informed consent. McKinley v. Stripling, 763 S.W.2d 407, 409 (Tex. 1989) ("A cause of action for the failure of a doctor to fully inform a patient of the risks of surgery is a negligence cause of action."); see also TEX. REV. CIV. STAT. ANN.  Art. 4590i, § 6.02 (Vernon Supp. 2000). Thus, for each of her causes of action, Christie was required to show evidence of a reasonable medical probability that her injury was proximately caused by the negligence of the defendants. See Park Place Hosp. v. Estate of Milo, 909 S.W.2d 508, 511 (Tex.1995). \n Also, it is well established that the threshold issue in a medical malpractice [*6]  case is the medical standard of care.  McIntyre v. Smith, 24 S.W.3d 911, 914 (Tex. App.-Texarkana 2000, pet. denied); Connor v. Waltrip, 791 S.W.2d 537, 540 (Tex. App.-Dallas 1990, no writ). That standard must first be established so the fact finder can determine if the doctor's conduct deviated from the standard to the degree that it constituted malpractice.  McIntyre, 24 S.W.3d at 914; Conno r, 791 S.W.2d at 540. It is not sufficient for a medical expert to simply state that he knows the standard of care and then to draw a conclusion as to whether that standard was met.  McIntyre, 24 S.W.3d at 914. Rather, the expert must explicitly state the standard of care and explain how the defendant's acts met or failed to meet that standard.  McIntyre, 24 S.W.3d at 914; see Patton v. Saint Joseph's Hosp., 887 S.W.2d 233, 243 (Tex. App.-Fort Worth 1994, writ denied) (when "testimony as a whole fails to establish any specific standard of care . . . the trial court correctly granted an instructed verdict"). Because the standard of care demanded in medical malpractice cases requires [*7]  skills not ordinarily possessed by lay persons, those cases typically require expert testimony to establish the medical standard of care. St. John v. Pope, 901 S.W.2d 420, 423 (Tex.1995) (citing Hood v. Phillips, 554 S.W.2d 160, 165-66 (Tex.1977)); Bowles v. Bourdon, 148 Tex. 1, 219 S.W.2d 779, 782 (Tex. 1949). \n Expert testimony is also required to show a doctor did not obtain informed consent from the patient. Edwards v. Garcia-Gregory, 866 S.W.2d 780, 784 (Tex. App.-Houston [14th Dist.] 1993, writ denied). In addition to showing the doctor failed to make the required disclosures, a plaintiff suing on an informed consent theory must establish proximate cause. McKinley, 763 S.W.2d at 409-10. To establish proximate cause, a plaintiff must first show that a reasonable person would have refused the treatment or procedure had he been fully informed of the inherent risks which would influence such a decision.  Id. at 410; Greene v. Thiet, 846 S.W.2d 26, 31 (Tex. App.-San Antonio 1993, writ denied). Second, the plaintiff must show she was injured by the occurrence of the [*8]  risk of which she was not informed.  Patton, 887 S.W.2d at 246; Greene, 846 S.W.2d at 31. \n  \n APPLICATION OF THE LAW TO THE FACTS \n  \n A. Dr. Cox's Motion for Summary Judgment \n Cox's motion asserted her entitlement to judgment as a matter of law "on all claims against her . . . because there is no evidence of any negligence on the part of Dr. Cox." The motion specified that Christie "provided no evidence that Dr. Cox failed to discharge any duty, or that she was the proximate cause of any of Ms. Christie's injuries." To overcome this motion, therefore, Christie was required to provide expert testimony concerning the standard of care Cox allegedly breached and that this breach proximately caused Christie's damages. \n In her response to the summary judgment, Christie attached deposition excerpts from four witnesses arguably qualified as medical experts: defendants Cox and Gilmore, plaintiff's expert Dr. Robert T. Miner, and defendants' expert Dr. Dennis I. Schuster. In these excerpts, neither Cox, Gilmore, nor Dr. Schuster testified regarding any standard of care or conduct by Cox that fell below an appropriate standard of care. Thus, the summary [*9]  judgment evidence from these three witnesses does not relate to the challenged elements. Dr. Miner's testimony, on the other hand, discusses various conduct that, if true, in his opinion falls below a certain standard of care. However, Dr. Miner does not enunciate what that standard of care is. See Connor, 791 S.W.2d at 540 (plaintiff failed to create issue of material fact when summary judgment evidence failed to set forth standard of care allegedly breached). More importantly, Dr. Miner does not opine regarding any negligent conduct attributable to Cox. The closest reference to Dr. Cox in Miner's offered testimony is, "The only thing I'm prepared to support is it appears two separate surgeons did the surgery on Ms. Christie." However, Dr. Miner does not mention Cox by name or by reference, nor does he specify what alleged care and treatment by Cox constituted negligence and proximately caused Christie's injuries. See id. at 540-541 (plaintiff failed to create issue of material fact when expert testimony did not establish defendant's conduct was a departure from the accepted standard of care). \n After examining all the summary judgment evidence [*10]  in the light most favorable to Christie and discarding all contrary evidence and inferences, we conclude Christie failed to raise an issue of material fact on the breach of the appropriate standard of care and proximate cause elements of her medical negligence, gross negligence, and failure to obtain informed consent causes of action against Cox. See, 791 S.W.2d at 540-541. We overrule point of error number one. \n  \n B. Dr. Gilmore's Motion for Summary Judgment \n In her second point of error, Christie complains that the trial court erred in granting Gilmore's no evidence motion for summary judgment. Gilmore's motion asserted his entitlement to judgment as a matter of law because Christie is unable to (1) "raise a material issue of fact as to the 'negligence' and 'cause-in-fact' elements of her . . . ordinary negligence cause of action;" (2) "provide any evidence of gross negligence;" and (3) "provide any evidence of the essential elements of a negligence cause of action for failure to provide informed consent." Again, to overcome this motion, Christie was required to provide expert testimony concerning the standard of care Gilmore allegedly breached and that this breach [*11]  proximately caused Christie's damages. In her response and supplemental response to Gilmore's summary judgment, Christie attached testimony from two medical experts: (1) more than forty pages from the deposition of plaintiff's expert Dr. Miner and an affidavit by Dr. Miner; and (2) one page from the deposition of defendants' expert Dr. Schuster. Christie also included excerpts from her own deposition and her own summary judgment affidavit. \n 1. Medical Negligence Claim \n Regarding her surgical malpractice claim, Christie fails to cite us to a particular page establishing the standard of care and our review of the record fails to reveal any evidence establishing the appropriate standard of care. We note that several times during his deposition Miner expresses the opinion that certain actions by Gilmore were "below the standard of care." However, Miner's deposition testimony never establishes the applicable standard of care. Without evidence of the appropriate standard of care, Miner's opinions concerning merely a deviation therefrom are insufficient to preclude summary judgement. See Rodriguez v. Reeves, 730 S.W.2d 19, 21 (Tex. App.-Corpus Christi 1987, writ ref'd [*12]  n.r.e.) (affirming directed verdict in absence of evidence of the applicable standard of care); see also Conno r, 791 S.W.2d at 540 (summary judgment affirmed when plaintiff failed to create a material fact issue because plaintiff's expert affidavit failed to controvert defendant expert's affidavit on "threshold issue of the medical standard of care"). We conclude that Miner's deposition testimony fails to raise an issue of material fact regarding the standard of care element for any of Christie's causes of action. \n Dr. Schuster's deposition excerpt does not refer to a standard of care concerning the surgery performed nor does he specify conduct by Gilmore that fell below an appropriate standard of care. Thus, the one page from Schuster's deposition testimony does not create a fact issue on the standard-of-care element for Christie's surgical negligence cause of action. \n As for Dr. Miner's affidavit, we note that in her third point of error, Christie complains that trial court erred in striking this affidavit for violating rule 193.5 of the rules of civil procedure. However, we conclude that the alleged error, if any, was harmless. Assuming, without deciding, that [*13]  the affidavit should have been considered as proper summary judgment evidence, it is insufficient to create a fact issue regarding the standard of care element on Christie's medical negligence cause of action. \n With regard to Christie's surgical negligence claim, Miner's affidavit merely asserts conclusions. Specifically, Miner states only that he is "familiar with the standard of care applicable to the surgery performed by Dr. Gilmore on Ms. Christie on April 19, 1995." He then opines in similar vague terms that "certain portions of the surgery were below the standard of care of a reasonable and prudent physician" and that injuries to the spinal accessory nerve and the scarring, distortion, and asymmetrical appearance of Ms. Christie's face occurred as a result of the surgery and would not have occurred but for the negligence of Dr. Gilmore. "It is not sufficient for a medical expert to simply state that he knows the standard of care and to then draw a conclusion as to whether the standard was met. Rather, the expert must explicitly state the standard of care and explain how the defendant's acts met or failed to meet that standard." McIntyre, 24 S.W.3d at 914. With [*14]  regard to the surgical negligence claim, we conclude that Miner's affidavit is insufficient to create a fact issue on the essential element of the standard of care. \n Accordingly, the trial court did not err in granting Gilmore's no evidence motion for summary judgment on Christie's surgical malpractice claim. With respect to this claim, we overrule Christie's second and third points of error. \n 2. Informed Consent Claim \n As to Christie's informed consent claim, she alleges Gilmore failed to obtain the required informed consent for her plastic surgery. In Dr. Shuster's deposition excerpts, he states that the appropriate standard of care for informed consent requires the doctor to obtain the patient's signature on a consent form that has been completely filled out prior to signing. Thus, Christie has satisfied her threshold burden of establishing the appropriate standard of care associated with her alleged breach of that standard. See Conno r, 791 S.W.2d at 540. \n Christie's deposition testimony recounts in detail that prior to the surgery Gilmore's nurses presented her with a blank consent form, told her that Gilmore did not have time to fill in the blanks, and [*15]  pressured her to sign it without reading it. Although she states she initially refused to sign the form because she did not have her glasses and was unable to read it, Christie ultimately signed the form after the nurses advised her it was an "informal consent," not an "informed" consent. Then Christie obtained a copy of the form she had signed. It appears that a copy of this document was marked as an exhibit to her deposition; however, that exhibit was not included in the summary judgment record. Accordingly, because of the "no evidence" standard of review, we must accept Christie's testimony as true that the consent form she signed was "blank." Additionally, Christie's summary judgment affidavit states that before her surgery, Gilmore failed to tell her all of the procedures he was going to perform and that she was not advised of all the risks associated with these procedures. Further, Christie stated she did not want all the surgeries performed on her and did not consent to them. Finally, Christie states, "I would not have undergone surgery with Dr. Gilmore if I had been told . . . that Dr. Gilmore was going to do all the surgeries he did do [or] that there are risks associated [*16]  with all the surgeries alone and in combination including deformity, asymmetry, scarring, unending pain and injury to my neck and shoulders, and the extent of those risks." Through her deposition testimony and affidavit, Christie presented some evidence that she was not advised of any risks associated with her surgery. Moreover, her statements under oath are some evidence that a reasonable person would not have undergone the surgery if the risks had been explained to her. See Greene, 846 S.W.2d at 31. \n Finally, as recounted in Dr. Miner's deposition excerpts, its undisputed that among the poor results of Christie's surgery were asymmetry and heavy scarring. This is some evidence that Christie was injured by the occurrence of the risk of which she was not informed. See Patton, 887 S.W.2d at 246; Greene, 846 S.W.2d at 31. \n After examining all the summary judgment evidence in the light most favorable to Christie and discarding all contrary evidence and inferences, we conclude Christie raised an issue of material fact on the breach of the appropriate standard of care and proximate cause elements of her informed consent claim against Gilmore.  [*17]  Accordingly, the trial court erred in granting Gilmore's "no evidence" motion on this claim. We sustain Christie's second point of error with regard to the informed consent claim. Because of our disposition of this point of error, we need not address the third point of error-Christie's complaint of the exclusion of Dr. Miner's affidavit-as it relates to the informed consent claim. \n 3. Gross Negligence Claim \n With respect to her gross negligence claim against Gilmore, Christie asserts that evidence her medical records were altered and that Gilmore permitted a colleague untrained in facial plastic surgery to actively participate in Christie's surgery satisfies her burden to establish Gilmore's gross negligence. However, our review of the record reveals that there is no evidence of "active" participation by an "untrained colleague" in Christie's surgery. At most, Miner stated that he was prepared to support that Gilmore and another surgeon did Christie's surgery. However, the only evidence regarding an unskilled surgeon referred to Cox and there is no evidence that Cox "actively" participated in Christie's surgery. \n Moreover, the evidence of medical record alteration consists solely [*18]  of Miner's suspicions and beliefs that Gilmore's medical records concerning Christie had entries inserted in between other entries. Even if true, there is no evidence of the significance of these insertions. Accordingly, we conclude that Christie failed to adduce any evidence of gross negligence by Gilmore and the trial court did not err in granting summary judgment on this claim. We overrule Christie's second point of error with respect to her gross negligence claim. \n In conclusion, we affirm the trial court's March 25, 1999 order granting summary judgment in favor of Cox. We reverse the trial court's December 19, 1999 order granting summary judgment in favor of Gilmore on Christie's informed consent claim and remand that claim to the trial court for further proceedings. In all other respects we affirm the December 19, 1999 summary judgment order. \n ROSE SPECTOR, JUSTICE, ASSIGNED  \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 