Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n Appellant injured motorist challenged the judgment of the 215th District Court, Harris County (Texas), which found appellee employee driver negligent and awarded her damages for past injuries and mental anguish, but denied her future damages in her personal injury action against appellees, including driver, employer, and acquiring corporation. The trial court entered a take-nothing judgment as to appellant's claim against appellee employer. \n Overview \n Appellant motorist was injured in automobile accident with appellee employee driver. Appellant brought a claim for injuries against appellees, including employee driver, employer, and acquiring corporation. The court entered judgment against appellee driver and a take-nothing judgment as to appellant's claim against appellee employer. On appeal, the court affirmed the judgment after reforming it award pre-judgment interest to appellant. The court held that the trial court did not err in overruling objections, and submitting evidence and jury charges on appellee employer's denial of liability as appellee driver's principal because the denial by an employer of an agency relationship did not have to be denied in verified pleadings. The court held that the jury's damage award was not against the great weight and preponderance of the evidence because of the evidence of appellant's pre-existing medical condition and other accidents. The court held that the jury answers were not inconsistent and there was no abuse of discretion in the trial court's failure to include certain definitions and instructions in the jury charge. \n Outcome \n The court affirmed the trial court's judgment awarding damages to appellant injured party as to her personal injury claim against appellee employee driver and entering a take-nothing judgment as to appellant's claim against appellee employer. Appellee employer's denial of the capacity of principal for appellee employee driver did not require a verified pleading. The court reformed the judgment to award prejudgment interest to appellant. \n Judges: Justices Cohen and Jones also sitting.   \n Opinion by: SAM BASS  \n Opinion \n  \n  \n OPINION  \n This case concerns an automobile accident wherein Bennett struck Cuyler from behind.  Bennett was employed by Lone Star Veterinary Supply Company, Inc., which was acquired by McKesson Corporation.  Cuyler sued Bennett and Lone Star for personal injuries, loss of earnings, and mental anguish. We reform the judgment to reflect the correct time period for computing prejudgment interest, and affirm the reformed judgment.  \n The auto accident occurred on August 19, 1985, on Brittmore Road.  Bennett was on Brittmore Road to call on a customer for his employer.  The driver Cuyler was following stopped suddenly to make a left turn.  Bennett was behind Cuyler.  When Cuyler braked, Bennett braked, and turned to the right, trying to avoid hitting Cuyler's vehicle, but the left edge of his front bumper bumped Cuyler's car.  Cuyler's [*2]  right rear bumper was "scratched" but there was no other visible damage.  Cuyler neither exhibited visible signs of injury nor complained of injury, she just wanted to get back to her workplace.  \n Suit was filed in June 1987.  At trial in April 1991, both parties focused their efforts upon the question of damages.  Cuyler presented evidence concerning her past and future medical expenses, pain and suffering, and lost income.  Bennett and Lone Star contended that the bulk of those expenses and costs were the result of other accidents and of preexisting medical conditions, causes unrelated to the accident.  The jury found Bennett was negligent, and awarded Cuyler damages of $ 2,500 for past physical pain and mental anguish and $ 2,500 for past medical care, and zero for each of the following: future physical pain and mental anguish; loss of earning capacity in the past; loss of future earning capacity; physical impairment in the past; future physical impairment; and future medical care.  On July 1, 1991, the trial court signed a judgment that Cuyler recover $ 5,000, plus pre- and postjudgment interest and costs, from Bennett, and take nothing from Lone Star or McKesson Corporation.  \n  [*3]  In points of error one through three, Cuyler contends that the trial court erred (1) in overruling her objections to appellees' requested jury question on whether Bennett was acting as an employee of Lone Star and McKesson at the time the accident occurred, (2) in allowing the submission of that question to the jury, and (3) in admitting evidence tending to rebut "the status of Bennett as an employee of Lone Star" at the time of the accident.  \n All three of these points are predicated upon Lone Star's failure to file a verified denial, under TEX. R. CIV. P. 93(2), specifically denying that Lone Star is liable in the capacity in which it has been sued, i.e., in its capacity as Bennett's principal.  Rule 93(2), however, refers to mistaken legal capacity, and does not require that an agency relationship be denied in verified pleadings.  John Chezik Buick Co. v. Friendly Chevrolet Co., 749 S.W.2d 591, 593 (Tex. App. -- Dallas 1988, writ denied).  \n Points of error one through three are overruled.  \n In point of error four, Cuyler asserts that the jury's answers to questions four and five are in irreconcilable conflict.  \n Question number four, and the jury's answer:  \n On the [*4]  occasion in question was Kent R. Bennett acting as an employee of Lone Star Veterinary Supply Co., Inc. and McKesson Corporation d/b/a Lone Star Veterinary Supply Company?  \n An employee is a person in the service of another with the understanding, express or implied, that such other person has the right to direct the details of the work and not merely the result to be accomplished.  \n A person is not acting as an employee if he is acting as an independent contractor.  An independent contractor is a person who, in pursuit of an independent business, undertakes to do specific work for another person, using his own means and method without submitting himself to the control of such other person with respect to the details of the work, and who represents the will of such other person only as to the result of his work and not as to the means by which it is accomplished.  \n Answer yes or no.  \n ANSWER: NO. \n Question number five, and the jury's answer:  \n On the occasion in question was Kent R. Bennett in the scope of his employment?  \n An employee is acting in the scope of his employment if he is acting in the furtherance of the business of his employer.  \n Answer yes or no.  [*5]   \n ANSWER: YES. \n Appellees assert there is no conflict in the answers to these two question, reasoning that the two answers do not require the rendition of different judgments because regardless of either answer, Cuyler is entitled to recover only $ 5,000 in actual damages.  \n A judgment against Bennett for $ 5,000 in actual damages is a different judgment than a judgment against Bennett and Lone Star jointly and severally for $ 5,000 in actual damages.  \n In Bender v. Southern Pacific Transportation Company, 600 S.W.2d 257, 260 (Tex. 1980), the supreme court set forth the standards applicable to appellate review of jury findings for conflict:  \n The threshold question is whether the findings are about the same material fact.  A court may not strike down jury answers on the ground of conflict if there is any reasonable basis upon which they can be reconciled.  The court must "reconcile apparent conflicts in the jury's findings" if reasonably possible in light of the pleadings and evidence, the manner of submission, and the other findings considered as a whole.  Where the issues submitted "admit of more than one reasonable construction," that which avoids a conflict [*6]  in the answers is generally adopted. . . .  "[Courts have the] duty to harmonize jury findings when possible." We do not determine whether the findings may reasonably be viewed as conflicting; to the contrary, the question is whether there is any reasonably possible basis upon which they may be reconciled. \n (Citations omitted.) We find that the two questions can be reasonably construed to inquire about different material facts.  \n An employer is liable for acts which an employee undertakes for accomplishment of the object for which he is employed.  Leadon v. Kimbrough Bros. Lumber Co., 484 S.W.2d 567, 569 (Tex. 1972). Question four inquired whether Bennett was acting as an employee of Lone Star at the time of the auto accident.  \n An employee's conduct may still be "within the scope of employment," although done in part to serve the purposes of the employee or of a third person.  Dictaphone Corp. v. Torrealba, 520 S.W.2d 869, 872 (Tex. Civ. App. -- Houston [14th Dist.] 1975, writ ref'd n.r.e.).  Moreover, even if the predominant motive of the employee is to benefit himself or a third person, his conduct is not thereby, as a matter of law, taken outside the scope [*7]  of his employment.  Id.; Best Steel Buildings, Inc. v. Hardin, 553 S.W.2d 122, 128 (Tex. Civ. App. -- Tyler 1977, writ ref'd n.r.e.).  If the purpose of serving the employer's business actuates the employee to any appreciable extent, his acts are within the scope of employment, and his employer is thus liable.  Howard v. American Paper Stock Co., 523 S.W.2d 744, 747 (Tex. Civ. App. -- Fort Worth 1975), reformed and aff'd, 528 S.W.2d 576 (Tex. 1975); Hardin, 533 S.W.2d at 128; Torrealba, 520 S.W.2d at 872. Only if all of the employee's appreciable purposes for his acts are "wholly disconnected with his employment' will his acts be outside the scope of his employment.  Ralph v. Mr. Paul's Shoes, Inc., 572 S.W.2d 812, 816 (Tex. Civ. App. -- Corpus Christi 1978, writ ref'd n.r.e.); see also Josey-Miller Co. v. Sheppard, 357 S.W.2d 488, 489 (Tex. Civ. App. -- Beaumont 1962, no writ) (no "complete departure" from employer's business, and so employee driver was still engaged in scope of his employment, even though he intended to accomplish a purpose of his own at the same time).  Question five inquired whether Bennett was acting in the scope of his employment [*8]  at the time of the accident.  Question five is a broader question, the scope of which completely encompasses the inquiry embodied in question four.  \n We also note that question four asks if Bennett was an employee of "Lone Star Veterinary Supply Co., Inc. and McKesson Corporation d/b/a Lone Star Veterinary Supply Co." at the time of the accident.  (Emphasis added.) In other words, question four inquired whether Bennett was simultaneously an employee of two different entities.  To that inquiry, the jury could reasonably have answered, "No," as it did, and at the same time found, as it did in its answer to question five, that he was acting in the scope of his employment with whichever one of the two entities in question employed him at the time of the accident.  \n An affirmative answer to question five does not conflict with a negative answer to question four.  \n Cuyler raised no complaint in the trial or in this court to the effect that judgment should have been granted against Bennett and Lone Star jointly and severally because of the jury's affirmative answer to question five.  Nor does Cuyler raise a complaint that the submission of question four in addition to question five unnecessarily [*9]  created the possibility of a fatal conflict between the jury's answers in the event of an affirmative answer to question four and a negative answer to question five.  Finally, Cuyler has not requested that we render a $ 5000 judgment against the corporate defendants, which would cure any possible harm accruing to her because of the error she assigns in this point.  Rather, she seeks an entirely new trial, a remedy greater than that needed to afford her complete relief.  Cuyler would not be entitled to the remedy she seeks even if her assignment of error were meritorious.  \n Point of error four is overruled.  \n In point of error five, Cuyler asserts that the evidence is factually insufficient to support the jury's damages findings.  \n When we review a jury finding to determine factual sufficiency of the evidence, we consider and weigh all of the evidence, including both that supporting the finding and the evidence contrary to the finding, and sustain the point only if the finding is so against the great weight and preponderance of the evidence as to be manifestly unjust.  Plas-Tex, Inc. v. U.S. Steel Corp., 772 S.W.2d 442, 445 (Tex. 1989); Cain v. Bain, 709 S.W.2d 175, 176 (Tex.  [*10]  1986).  \n The evidence at trial consisted entirely of Cuyler's case-in-chief.  Bennett was called as an adverse witness.  \n Bennett's testimony was that the accident in question entailed only a slight impact, no more than a bump, and that Cuyler did not appear hurt immediately thereafter.  That testimony was consistent with photographs introduced to depict the condition of the rear of Cuyler's car immediately after the collision, which showed that there was little or no damage to her vehicle.  Cuyler testified that the impact was a severe impact, which moved her car several car lengths, and which flung her around inside the car and which bent the fender of her car far enough to rub against her rear tire.  Dr. Perkins' history said that she was rear-ended while at a stop sign in the August 1985 accident, by a car going about 40 miles an hour, and that she felt immediate pain in the neck. Her testimony was consistent with Bennett's that she was able to get out of her car, walk, and had no visible signs of injury right after the accident.  \n Dr. Smedstad, a doctor of chiropractry, testified as an expert witness for Cuyler.  He gave his opinion that in the August 1985 collision, Cuyler suffered [*11]  injuries to her cervical spine involving the muscles and ligaments and two of the disks, along with some soft tissue injuries.  His opinion was based on his own examinations of Cuyler, which began in May 1988, and on medical history information that she supplied.  \n Cuyler told Smedstad that she had been in a similar auto accident after August 1985.  He testified that the same type of back injuries he saw could have been sustained in a fall or some other type of incident and not necessarily an automobile accident. The neck injuries he saw had to come from an auto accident. He acknowledged that Cuyler's medical records showed that she had also been involved in an accident in 1984 which resulted in neck pain. He was asked, "Did the prior accident [in 1984] have any effect on this accident," and responded "I don't know." He then was asked, "Did the subsequent accident [after the 1985 collision] have any effect on her condition," and replied, "It irritated it."  \n Dr. Motz, a psychologist, also treated Cuyler, and testified as an expert witness.  Motz' testimony was that Cuyler had been feeling depressed because she was not getting well as fast as she wanted to and was not able to [*12]  be self-sufficient.  Cuyler later testified saying that since the August 1985 accident, she worried about things that she was not worried about before, such as paying for medicine and about being a burden to other people.  \n Motz' professional opinion was that Cuyler needed psychological assistance and that need seemed to be as a result of the collision in August 1985.  Her lack of self-sufficiency stemming from the auto accident injuries caused Cuyler embarrassment and contributed to her emotional difficulties.  He estimated that she would need psychological treatments 50 times per year for as much as 10 more years; and that, absent the physical disabilities that contribute to her depression, she would need only two or three more sessions because her psychological problem is based on her physical disability.  Cuyler had already sought psychological counseling before the accident because of a break-up with her boyfriend.  She had been counseled for that reason in 1983 or 1984.  \n Dr. Samuels, an osteopath, testified as Cuyler's third medical expert.  Samuels was aware that Cuyler had been involved in a automobile accident, in 1984, and another accident after the 1985 collision with Bennett.  [*13]  He was asked whether the collision that occurred in August 1985 was "the chief cause" of Cuyler's physical problems, and stated his opinion that "the injury sustained in her tissues are a result of the [August 1985] accident as perpetuating factors." He acknowledged that Cuyler was injured in the 1984 accident, sustaining a cervical sprain, but said that his information indicated that she was placed on a muscle relaxant and it was resolved within two weeks.  Cuyler later testified that the 1984 injuries did not affect her ability to work or to stay in school.  \n The reason Samuels felt that Cuyler's injuries were caused by the 1985 accident as opposed to the 1984 accident was because there was no medical treatment after the two-week period following the accident until February of 1985.  He was also asked, with regard to the 1987 accident, why he would conclude that Cuyler's problems were caused by the 1985 accident and not the 1987 accident, and replied, "She still was experiencing the same injury pattern." Samuels also believed that Cuyler was likely to reaggravate the 1985 auto accident injury in subsequent accidents, and said that following that accident, things that would not [*14]  hurt a healthy person would be capable of hurting her.  He also said that the pain Cuyler experiences could shorten her life span by 10 to 20 percent.  On cross-examination, he acknowledged that between 1985 and the first time he saw Cuyler, sometime in 1990, it is possible that she could have suffered the things he was seeing by some cause other than the accident.  \n All three medical witnesses were questioned about a malady called Epstein-Barr syndrome. Cuyler suffered from this disease. The disease makes one tired or lazy or run down.  Both Smedstad and Motz testified that the August 1985 accident did not cause Cuyler to contract the Epstein-Barr syndrome.  \n Smedstad testified that the Epstein-Barr syndrome could cause an afflicted person to have difficulty at work or at school, and that "complications from Epstein-Barr disease and the effect on Cuyler would have an effect on the injuries" she sustained in the August 1985 auto accident.  \n Motz testified that Cuyler's other physical conditions did not contribute to her mental problems.  He testified, however, that (a) Epstein-Barr syndrome contributes to her lack of energy, and (b) that means, in turn, that the syndrome would affect [*15]  her ability to keep employment and perform as a good student, thereby contributing to the lack of self-sufficiency contributing to Cuyler's depression, and (c) depression is a frequent result of the Epstein-Barr syndrome.  \n Samuels testified that Epstein-Barr was not the primary cause of Cuyler's pain problems, but that it "can be a perpetuating or complicating reason" for them.  He testified that both the pain from her injuries and the Epstein-Barr syndrome itself depress Cuyler, and the disease could cause muscle aches, and neck stiffness in particular.  \n At first Cuyler persistently denied knowing what Epstein-Barr syndrome is or that her doctors had diagnosed her as suffering from that particular malady.  She later admitted that she had stated in her deposition "I also have Epstein-Barr Bar virus." She testified, "I believe there is only remission.  There is no cure for the virus." She said "the Epstein-Barr virus came about a year and a half after the [August 1985] accident."  \n One accident was not even an accident, according to Cuyler, because it was just a little bump in a Wendy's Hamburgers fast-food drive-through, did not injure her, and did not aggravate any old injuries.  [*16]  She testified there was also an accident at Richmond and Hillcroft after the August 1985 accident but before the incident at Wendy's which took place while she was under the care of Dr. Smedstad.  She also recounted that she had had a preexisting foot injury which had bothered her off and on since 1983, and a preexisting injury to her left wrist that occurred in February 1985, that sometimes necessitated use of a brace, when she played tennis.  She was asked, "After the accident of August 1985, when was the first time you realized any type of pain in regard to your left foot," and replied, "It remained painful as it had previously been painful only it had gotten progressively worse."  \n Several hundred pages of medical records were introduced, and certain portions were read to the jury.  Dr. Oates stated that "I told Ms. Cuyler that my neurological examination was normal and I was unable to reproduce her arm complaints with manipulation and I was at a loss explaining this pain. It may very well be that she magnifies pain and that therefore any sort of surgical procedure would be doomed to failure." Dr. Brodsky stated that  \n I have not seen the patient since . . . December 20th,  [*17]  1986, and it was my feeling at that time that her complaints were largely on a functional basis.  This case was complicated by some medical-legal involvement for her auto accident injury, and I have recommended to her that she seek psychiatric assistance.  The patient was disaffected and has gone elsewhere since that time.  I see no reason from a purely physical standpoint why this young lady should not be capable of working and I believe if she had followed the appropriate advice, her psychiatric problems would probably have been ameliorated by appropriate treatment. \n (Emphasis added.) Cuyler read out of her own medical records a passage which included a statement of Dr. Brodsky's that she read as "I am not convinced of her symptoms."  \n Cuyler testified that immediately before the accident she was earning $ 2100 per month; that since then she had once made $ 1000 in one month, but as of the time of trial was not working and had no earned income; and that she had in the preceding year earned a total of $ 2400 for the entire year.  She computed that $ 2100 per month is equal to $ 25,200 per year; the difference between her pre- and postaccident earnings was $ 25,200 minus [*18]  $ 2400 equals $ 22,800 per year, multiplied by 5.5 years since the accident through time of trial, equals $ 125,400 in lost past earnings.  \n Cuyler testified that loss of income would continue and remain permanent, and that she had previously expected to work until the age of 65.  The trial court was asked to, and did, take judicial notice showing the life expectancy of a 31-year-old white female such as Cuyler to be 49.2 years.  The trial court was not asked to, and did not, instruct the jury that such fact was judicially noticed.  Cuyler's counsel asked for, and received, permission to read to the jury the actuarial table on the basis of which judicial notice had been taken, and proceeded to do so.  Neither appellee objected.  \n Smedstad testified that Cuyler's injuries from the August 1985 accident prevented her at the time of trial from participating in competitive sports such as tennis, and that Cuyler had not been able to continue with her job or her studies following the injuries sustained in the collision. It was his opinion that her injuries were permanent and would require ongoing care, and that she would not be able to return to playing competitive tennis as she did before [*19]  collision. Smedstad stated that Cuyler as of the time of trial could not return to full time work, and that it was difficult to tell whether she would be able to do so five to 10 years down the road.  Cuyler was unable to do anything that entailed sitting or lifting, especially sitting for longer than a few hours on a part-time basis, and nothing that was strenuous or too physical.  He observed that she was also impaired because pain affects the body's resistance to diseases, including Epstein-Barr syndrome, making one less resistant and more susceptible to disease.  \n Cuyler testified that she could only lift just the smallest of articles following the accident, even to the extent that taking dishes out of the cabinet or wearing certain items of clothing gave her difficulties.  Nevertheless, she had been capable enough that she was able to, and did, live alone from February 1988 through time of trial. She further testified that just hugging and kissing with her boyfriend could even be a problem, from the weight of his arm around her shoulders.  Her injuries were not so severe as to prevent her from driving, because her boyfriend testified that he had seen her do so earlier in the [*20]  day.  Cuyler testified she was capable of driving, and did drive, a manual transmission car, although it was painful to do so.  \n Plaintiff's exhibit 50 was a summary of the medical bills introduced by Cuyler, and indicates approximately $ 94,820.60 in past medical expenses.  Dr. Samuels, testified that those fees were reasonable.  When asked on direct examination whether those services were necessary, however, he replied, "Most of them, not all of them." When asked "Can you specifically tell the jury the services on this [exhibit] that you feel may be unrelated to the [August 1985] accident, he identified the charges for treatment for strep throat and for a specified surgery as unrelated to the August 1985 accident, and ended with the words, "Those specifically." The jury could have interpreted those final words as a qualifier, that there may have been other charges listed that Samuels felt were unrelated to the August 1985 accident but could not identify with specificity.  \n Smedstad testified that in his opinion, Cuyler's injuries from the August 1985 accident would require between $ 2000 and $ 3000 per year for chiropractic care and examination for the rest of her life, and would [*21]  need between $ 5000 and $ 15,000 for future annual medical care.  \n Cuyler contends that this case is within the rule of Qualls v. Miller, 414 S.W.2d 746, 748-49 (Tex. Civ. App. -- Texarkana 1967, writ dism'd):  \n Though the amount of damages is ordinarily left to the discretion of the jury under the evidence before them, . . . they have no authority to completely ignore the undisputed facts and arbitrarily fix an amount neither authorized nor supported by the evidence. . . .  The amount of damages is largely within the jury's discretion.  However, they must award something for every element of damage resulting from an injury. \n  \n  \n Cuyler cites Lowery v. Berry, 269 S.W.2d 795 (Tex. 1954) to the same effect.  There, despite undisputed facts showing that that the three-year-old child whose injuries were at issue received multiple skull fractures and other very serious head injuries, the jury awarded zero damages for her diminished earning capacity, physical impairment, and her past and future pain and suffering.  The supreme court reversed and remanded for retrial the cause of action asserted in behalf of the child, because the jury's finding of zero damages was against [*22]  the great weight and preponderance of the evidence.  \n Both Lowery and Qualls are readily distinguishable.  Unlike either of those cases, here Cuyler had both lingering injuries from previous incidents and accidents, and subsequent injuries from later accidents.  \n It is well settled that a tortfeasor takes his plaintiff as he finds her.  Coates v. Whittington, 758 S.W.2d 749, 752 (Tex. 1988). The application of that rule means that, upon proper proof, Bennett, though not liable for Cuyler's preexisting physical injuries, was liable for any aggravation or increase in those conditions proximately caused by his negligence.  See Coleman County Electric Co-Op v. Agnew, 265 S.W.2d 911, 914 (Tex. Civ. App. -- Eastland), aff'd, 272 S.W.2d 877 (Tex. 1954), overruled in other respects by Burk Royalty Co. v. Walls, 616 S.W.2d 911, 925 (Tex. 1981) (defendant's potential liability on remand extended only to the aggravation of any arthritic condition which Agnew had prior to the automobile accident); Rains v. Heldenfels Bros., 443 S.W.2d 280, 295 (Tex. Civ. App. -- Corpus Christi 1969, writ ref'd n.r.e.) (injured party who thereafter suffered additional injuries [*23]  less than death through negligence of defendant who failed to furnish reasonable assistance could recover from that defendant only those further damages chargeable to his failure to render needed assistance); Gulf Casualty Co. v. Archer, 118 S.W.2d 976, 979 (Tex. Civ. App. -- El Paso 1938, writ dism'd) (liability for damages for personal injury cannot be avoided by merely showing that person injured was not well at time of injury, notwithstanding the injury is aggravated or enhanced by the effect of preexisting or subsequently contracted disease; nevertheless, where pleadings and evidence raised the issue, defendant was entitled to jury question asking whether injuries resulted solely from preexisting arthritic condition instead of from fall from ladder).  Upon proper proof, Bennett was also liable for the mental anguish "in excess of the common emotional reaction to an injury or loss," Coates, 758 S.W.2d at 753, proximately caused by his negligence, but not for expenses for treating any preexisting emotional conditions, as distinct from the mental anguish which resulted from the auto accident. See id. at 753, 752 (while Coates was entitled to recover mental anguish [*24]  damages resulting from the incident conditioned as she was at the time of the physical injury, her prior problems and attendant complaints of depression remained distinct from the mental anguish she claimed as a result of her injury).  Finally, Bennett was liable -- again, upon proper proof -- for all damages proximately traceable to his negligence, including subsequent aggravations the probability of which the law regards as a sequence and natural result likely to flow from the original injury.  City of Port Arthur v. Wallace, 171 S.W.2d 480, 483 (Tex. 1943). Nevertheless, Bennett was not liable in connection with subsequent automobile accidents from which his own act of negligence was remote.  "A prior or remote cause cannot be made the basis of an action for damages if it does nothing more than furnish the condition or give rise to the occasion which makes the injury possible, if such injury is the result of some other cause which reasonable minds would not have anticipated, even though the injury would not have occurred but for the condition." Phoenix Refining Co. v. Tips, 81 S.W.2d 60, 61 (Tex. Comm'n App. 1935, opinion adopted).  \n Precisely where the line lay between [*25]  the damages for which Bennett's conduct was the proximate cause and other damages was a question of fact for the jury.  The jury was entitled to believe or disbelieve the testimony of any witness, either in whole or in part, as it saw fit.  Miller v. Kendall, 804 S.W.2d 933, 939 (Tex. App. -- Houston [1st Dist.] 1990, no writ); Rego Co. v. Brannon, 682 S.W.2d 677, 680 (Tex. App. -- Houston [1st Dist.] 1984, writ ref'd n.r.e.).  The fact that Cuyler had preexisting injuries from previous incidents and accidents was undisputed.  Whether the auto accident involving her and Bennett aggravated or increased those preexisting injuries was disputed vigorously and well.  The fact that Bennett's negligence caused the August 1985 auto accident was undisputed or virtually undisputed.  Whether that accident was such as to harm Cuyler at all was also disputed vigorously and well.  There was no great weight and preponderance of evidence contrary to the jury's damage findings.  The evidence was factually sufficient to support those findings.  \n Point of error five is overruled.  \n Point of error six asserts the trial court erred in denying Cuyler's motion for new trial. The bases asserted [*26]  in that motion for new trial were the same complaints Cuyler raised in points of error four and five on this appeal.  Point six is dependent on the premise that the errors points of error four and five assert did in fact occur.  Those points have been overruled.  To the extent, if any, that this point of error complains of additional error other than the errors raised in points of error four and five, that additional error is not apparent from either the point of error itself or the argument Cuyler makes to support it.  Such a point of error is too general, Carter v. Carter, 391 S.W.2d 546, 548 (Tex. Civ. App. -- Dallas 1965, no writ), and presents nothing for review.  Point of error six is overruled.  \n Point of error seven asserts that the trial court erred in limiting Cuyler's recovery of prejudgment interest on the $ 5000 in damages found by the jury to the period from June 1987 to December 1, 1988.  Cuyler cites Cavnar v. Quality Control Parking, Inc., 696 S.W.2d 549 (Tex. 1985), contending that the judgment should have awarded her prejudgment interest on the entire $ 5000 for the period beginning six months after August 19, 1985, and continuing thereafter up to the [*27]  date of judgment.  See Cavnar, 696 S.W.2d at 555 (in nondeath personal injury cases, prejudgment interest on both pecuniary and nonpecuniary damages begins to accrue from a date six months after the occurrence of the incident giving rise to the cause of action).  Appellees cite TEX. REV. CIV. STAT. ANN. art. 5069-1.05, § 6 (Vernon Supp. 1992).  Subsection (a) provides in pertinent part that prejudgment interest begins to accrue on the 180th day after the date the defendant receives written notice of a claim or on the day suit is filed, whichever occurs first.  Appellees claim the benefit of subsection (b), which qualifies subsection (a) and which provides that "if judgment for a claimant is less than the amount of a settlement offer by the defendant, prejudgment interest does not accrue on the amount of the judgment for the period during which the offer may be accepted." Appellees assert that on December 1, 1988, their agent offered in writing to settle this case for $ 15,000, and that the offer was never withdrawn.  Appellees may not rely upon subsection 6(b).  Section 6 was added by Act of June 16, 1987, 70th Leg., 1st C.S., ch. 3, § 1, 1987 Tex. Gen. Laws 51, 51, and became [*28]  effective September 2, 1987.  This suit was commenced before that date, on June 18, 1987.  Section 6 does not apply retroactively.  A.B.F. Freight Sys. v. Austrian Import Serv., Inc., 798 S.W.2d 606, 617 (Tex. App. -- Dallas 1990, writ denied).  Cavnar states the applicable rule for computing the prejudgment interest due Cuyler, including the dates on which accrual begins and ends.  Id.  \n Point of error seven is sustained.  The judgment shall be reformed to award Cuyler prejudgment interest on $ 5000 beginning on December 18, 1987, and ending on June 30, 1991.  We take judicial notice of the Credit Code Letter, Volume 10, Number 51, dated June 18, 1991, reciting that the rate of interest on judgments on July 1, 1991, the date the trial court signed its judgment, was 10 percent per year.  \n Point of error eight is multifarious.  Such a point may properly be disregarded.  Pooser v. Lovett Square Townhomes Owners' Ass'n, 702 S.W.2d 226, 228 (Tex. App. -- Houston [1st Dist.] 1985, writ ref'd n.r.e.).  If, however, after reviewing the argument, the nature of the complaint raised can be determined with reasonable certainty, a multifarious point may properly be considered.  [*29]  Id.  \n In her eighth point of error, Cuyler raises three complaints that the trial court erred -- first, "in not instructing the jury on her pre-existing [medical] conditions"; second, in not including in the charge a definition of mental anguish; and third, in not charging the jury that a party's failure to produce evidence within his control gives rise to a presumption that that evidence would be unfavorable to him.  \n TEX. R. CIV. P. 277 requires a trial court to submit to the jury "such instructions and definitions as shall be proper to enable the jury to render a verdict." The trial court has considerable discretion, however, in applying the rule and deciding what explanatory instructions and definitions are in fact necessary and proper.  Johnson v. Whitehurst, 652 S.W.2d 441, 447 (Tex. App. -- Houston [1st Dist.] 1983, writ ref'd n.r.e.).  The only requirement to be observed is that the trial court must give definitions of legal and other technical terms.  Id.  \n A trial court's refusal to submit a requested instruction or definition will be reversed on appeal only if the trial court is shown to have abused its discretion.  Magro v. Ragsdale Bros., Inc., 721 [*30]  S.W.2d 832, 836 (Tex. 1986). The key question is whether there was such a denial of a party's rights as was reasonably calculated to cause and probably did cause rendition of an improper judgment in the case.  Gulf Coast State Bank v. Emenhiser, 562 S.W.2d 449, 453-54 (Tex. 1978); TEX. R. APP. P. 81(b)(1).  Absent such a showing, an appellant fails to demonstrate that an abuse of discretion occurred.  Steinberger v. Archer County, 621 S.W.2d 838, 841 (Tex. App. -- Fort Worth 1981, no writ).  In making its determination, the appellate court considers the submission as a whole.  Interfirst Bank Dallas, N.A. v. Risser, 739 S.W.2d 882, 897 (Tex. App. -- Texarkana 1987, no writ).  The burden is on the appellant to show the probability of harm when the entire record is considered.  Id.  \n Cuyler's first complaint is predicated upon the trial court's refusal to give the following instruction:  \n You are instructed that a Defendant takes a Plaintiff in the condition in which they find the Plaintiff at the time of the occurrence in question.  \n You are further instructed that a pre-existing condition in the Plaintiff, if any, does not lessen the liability of the Defendant [*31]  for the damages, if any, that are caused by the occurrence in question. \n The court's charge as given contained no instruction whatsoever specifically addressing how the jury should treat Cuyler's preexisting medical conditions, if any.  Question number two, however, asked, "Did the negligence, if any, of the persons named below proximately cause the occurrence in question," and contained the following definition:  \n "Proximate cause" means that cause which, in a natural and continuous sequence, produces an event, and without which cause such event would not have occurred.  In order to be a proximate cause, the act or omission complained of must be such that a person using ordinary care would have foreseen that the event, or some similar event, might reasonably result therefrom.  There may be more than one proximate cause of an event. \n The damages question, number six, in turn inquired about reasonable compensation for the injuries, if any, to Cuyler that resulted from the "occurrence in question."  \n The supreme court dealt with a contention similar to Cuyler's in Yellow Cab and Baggage Co. v. Green, 277 S.W.2d 92 (Tex. 1955). There, in a negligence suit,  [*32]  the defendant complained of the trial court's failure to include in the charge an instruction which would have expressly stated to the jury that they could not award to the plaintiff a recovery for damages the plaintiff "may have suffered from prior infirmities." 277 S.W.2d at 94. The court held that it was not error to omit such an instruction from the charge, because the issues submitted to the jury expressly confined plaintiff's recovery to the damages that were the direct and proximate result of defendant's negligence.  Id.  The court reasoned that when "the trial court tells them plainly, clearly and pointedly that they must exclude all damages except those arising as a result of the negligence, if any, of the [defendant], . . . in our opinion, this instruction affirmatively excludes other damages." Id.  We are of the opinion that such an instruction also affirmatively includes all damages for which the plaintiff should, upon proper proof, recover.  \n Taken together, questions two and six adequately informed the jurors that they were to award Cuyler all damages proximately caused by negligence on Bennett's part, and neither to omit any such damages nor to reduce those [*33]  damages because of any pre-existing medical condition of Cuyler's.  Cuyler's first complaint is without merit.  \n Cuyler's second complaint is predicated upon the trial court's refusal to give the following definition Cuyler tendered for inclusion in the charge: "MENTAL ANGUISH: means emotional pain, torment, and suffering."  \n "Mental anguish" is not a legal or technical term, but rather is an everyday expression.  Paragon Hotel Corp. v. Ramirez, 783 S.W.2d 654, 661 (Tex. App. -- El Paso 1989, writ denied).  Ordinary expressions do not require definition for the jury.  Texaco, Inc. v. Pennzoil Co., 729 S.W.2d 768, 814 (Tex. App. -- Houston [1st Dist.] 1987, writ ref'd n.r.e.), cert. dismissed, 485 U.S. 994 (1988). Moreover, in Trotti v. K-Mart Corp., 686 S.W.2d 593, 593 (Tex. 1985), the supreme court wrote per curiam in refusing, no reversible error, an application for a writ of error from a decision of this Court, for the purpose of observing that its action "should not be interpreted as approving of the court of appeals' statement that . . . 'mental anguish is a technical, legal term, and . . . the trial court should have defined that term for the [*34]  jury[.]'" Since then, other courts of appeals have specifically held that it is not error for a trial court to refuse to submit to the jury a definition of mental anguish. See, e.g., Shearson Lehman Hutton, Inc. v. Tucker, 806 S.W.2d 914, 923 (Tex. App. -- Corpus Christi 1991, writ dism'd w.o.j.); Ramirez, 783 S.W.2d at 661; Murphy v. Waldrip, 692 S.W.2d 584, 590 (Tex. App. -- Fort Worth; 1985, writ ref'd n.r.e.); see also Gulf States Util. Co. v. Reed, 659 S.W.2d 849, 854 (Tex. App. -- Houston [14th Dist.] 1983, writ ref'd n.r.e.).  The case Cuyler cites, Birchfield v. Texarkana Memorial Hosp., 747 S.W.2d 361 (Tex. 1987), is not to the contrary; Birchfield merely held that "mental anguish" encompasses "shock and emotional trauma," and did not address whether the term may or must be defined for the jury.  \n The trial court was well within its discretion to refuse to define the term "mental anguish" for the jury.  Cuyler has shown no abuse of discretion.  \n Cuyler bases her final complaint on the trial court's refusal to give the following instruction: "You are instructed that where evidence is particularly within the knowledge or control of a party,  [*35]  its failure to produce it raises the presumption that, if offered, the evidence would have been unfavorable to it." Cuyler states in her brief that  \n the record in this case is clear that Lone Star destroyed its records which showed the conduct of Bennett at and after the time of the collision made the basis of this suit, which would have gone to the question of whether or not Bennett was in the course and scope of his employment at the time of the collision and which would also have gone to the question of the time of the collision since this was a disputed issue in the case. \n Cuyler does not illuminate, by record references or otherwise, either what precise "records" were destroyed, or what basis of knowledge she has for asserting that they were destroyed, or any significance that the time of the collision has independent of the determination of whether Bennett was in the course and scope of his employment at the time of the collision. Lone Star assumes in its brief that Cuyler refers to certain records she requested be produced to her.  Lone Star responded, with respect to six of the 25 categories of documents requested, that "These records are no longer available."  [*36]  Even without the instruction Cuyler requested concerning Lone Star's failure to produce the documents in question, the jury found that Bennett was in the scope of his employment at the time of the auto accident. Cuyler has not shown that the court's refusal of the requested instruction probably caused rendition of an improper judgment, and therefore has demonstrated no abuse of discretion. Cuyler's final complaint is without merit.  \n Point of error eight is overruled.  \n The judgment of the trial court is reformed to award Cuyler prejudgment interest on $ 5000, at the rate of 10 percent per year, beginning on December 18, 1987, and ending on June 30, 1991.  As reformed, the judgment is affirmed.  \n Sam Bass  \n Justice  \n Justices Cohen and Jones also sitting.  \n Judgment rendered and opinion delivered October 15, 1992  \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 