Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n Appellant landlord sought review of the judgment from the 295th District Court of Harris County (Texas) rendered in favor of appellees in their action for damages resulting from a fire in a four-plex apartment owned by appellant. \n Overview \n Appellee mother and her two children lived in a four-plex apartment building owned by appellant. Appellees' apartment caught fire when one of the children overturned a candle. Appellees successfully exited the building and called 911. Appellee mother re-entered the building to warn the other tenants. One of the children returned to the building to look for appellee mother and was killed in the fire. Appellees sued appellant for negligence and gross negligence, and received a bench trial verdict of $ 1,000,000. On appeal, appellant contended that it was error to find her liable because there was no evidence she violated Tex. Prop. Code § 92.251 et seq., and that there was insufficient evidence of causation. The court affirmed. The court ruled that appellant waived the defense of appellees' failure to comply with the statute's request and notice provisions since she did not raise the issue in the trial court. Moreover, the court ruled that the evidence supported the trial court's finding that the absence of smoke detectors was the cause in fact of appellees' injuries since appellee re-entered the four-plex because she did not hear functioning smoke detectors. \n Outcome \n The court affirmed the verdict in favor of appellees because the evidence supported the trial court's finding that the absence of smoke detectors was the cause in fact of appellees' injuries. The court also ruled that appellant waived the smoke detector statute's notice protections by not preserving error in the trial court by raising the issue. \n Judges: Panel consists of Justices Cohen, Hedges, and Taft.   \n Opinion by: ADELE HEDGES \n Opinion \n  \n  \n  \n OPINION \n Appellant, the defendant below, appeals a bench trial judgment for $ 1,000,000 rendered in favor of appellees, the plaintiffs below. In three issues, appellant contends that there is no evidence that she violated section 92.251 of the Texas Property Code, and, alternatively, that there is insufficient evidence of causation. We affirm. \n  \n STATEMENT OF FACTS \n Appellees, Roseletta Mitchell and her two children, Kori Johnson and Kourtney Mitchell, lived in a four-plex apartment building owned by appellant, C.L. Daniels a/k/a C.L. Mayon. On November 16, 1994, appellees' apartment caught fire when Kourtney, then age five, overturned a candle. After an unsuccessful attempt to extinguish the fire, Kori, age nine, made an emergency 911 call to the Houston Fire Department. Roseletta, Kori, and Kourtney escaped from the four-plex unharmed. \n After [*2]  waiting outside for five to seven minutes, Roseletta re-entered the four-plex to warn the other tenants about the fire. While Roseletta was inside, Kori entered the building to look for his mother. Roseletta located the other tenants, and they escaped unharmed. Kori was not able to escape and died from burns, smoke inhalation, and carbon monoxide toxicity. \n During the fire, the smoke detector located in appellees' unit beeped for less than a second and then stopped. No other smoke detectors sounded an alarm. The common areas of the four-plex were not equipped with smoke detectors. \n Appellees sued Daniels for negligence and gross negligence which resulted in Kori's death. They alleged that Daniels was negligent in failing to install or maintain proper fire safety devices on the premises and in having burglar bars on the windows that did not allow for emergency escape. At trial, appellees presented two witnesses, Roseletta Mitchell by live testimony and Daniels by deposition. Daniels rested without presenting any evidence. The trial court rendered judgment for appellees. \n  \n DUTY \n In her first issue, Daniels contends that it was error to find her liable because there is no evidence [*3]  she violated the Texas Smoke Detector Statute, section 92.251 et seq. of the Texas Property Code. \n Daniels contends that she owed no duty to appellees because appellees failed to comply with the request and notice provisions of the Texas Smoke Detector Statute. This statute provides that a landlord is liable to a tenant for a complaint concerning the installation, inspection, or repair of a smoke detector in the tenant's dwelling only if the tenant makes a request for repair and provides the landlord with written notice that the tenant may exercise his or her statutory remedies. Acts of May 26, 1983, 68th Leg., R.S., ch. 576, 1983 Tex. Gen. Laws 3475, 3652-53 (amended 1995) (current version at TEX. PROP. CODE ANN.  § 92.259 (Vernon Supp. 1999)). These statutory duties replace those that exist under common law, other statutory law, and local ordinances. Id. § 92.252. \n In order for a tenant to seek redress from the landlord, he or she must comply with the request and notice provisions under the statute.  Rao v. Rodriguez, 923 S.W.2d 176, 180 (Tex. App.--Beaumont 1996, no writ); Coleman v. United Savings Assoc. Of Texas, 846 S.W.2d 128, 132 (Tex. App.--Fort Worth 1993,  [*4]  no writ); Cannon v. Lemon, 843 S.W.2d 178, 182 (Tex. App.--Houston [14th Dist.] 1992, writ denied); Garza-Vale v. Kwiecien, 796 S.W.2d 500, 504 (Tex. App.--San Antonio 1990, writ denied). The provisions are considered conditions precedent to a tenant's recovery.  Coleman, 846 S.W.2d at 132. \n  \n In Rao, Coleman, Cannon, and Garza-Vale, the plaintiff-tenants' lawsuits were dismissed because each failed to comply with the request and notice provisions. These cases are distinguishable. In each case, the landlord-defendant presented his or her complaint about a tenant's non-compliance with the statute's request and notice provisions to the trial court. See Rao, 923 S.W.2d at 178-79 (motion for judgment n.o.v.); Coleman, 846 S.W.2d at 130 (motion for summary judgment); Cannon, 843 S.W.2d at 179 (motion for summary judgment); Garza-Vale, 796 S.W.2d at 501 n.2 (motion for directed verdict). \n In this case, by contrast, Daniels never complained to the trial court that appellees did not comply with the statute. Daniels moved for judgment after the plaintiff rested, but the basis of this motion was that there was no evidence of causation. Daniels also made [*5]  a post-judgment motion for new trial that again addressed only the issue of causation. Moreover, during the trial, Roseletta testified that she had complained to Daniels about the smoke detector, yet during cross-examination, Daniels made no effort to develop this testimony to show that Roseletta's complaint did not satisfy statutory requirements. \n We find that Daniels has waived her assertion on appeal that she owes no duty to appellees based on their failure to comply with the statute's request and notice provisions. The Texas Supreme Court has recognized that statutory protections can be waived where the party does not preserve error in the trial court by raising the issue. See, e.g., Kolster v. City of El Paso, 972 S.W.2d 58 (Tex. 1998). In Kolster, the court held that the City of El Paso did not preserve error on what standard of culpability applied in a case involving the operation of an emergency vehicle.  Id. at 59. The court recognized that while the statutory standard of care in such a case is recklessness, the City was properly held to the lesser negligence standard because it did not object to a jury question submitting negligence as the standard. Id. The [*6]  court further noted that the error was not preserved because the City did not move for directed verdict or judgment n.o.v. on this issue. Id. Similarly, Daniels has not preserved her complaint regarding non-compliance with the Texas Smoke Detector Statute. \n We overrule Daniels's first issue. \n  \n SUFFICIENCY OF THE EVIDENCE \n In her second and third issues, Daniels contends that the evidence is legally and factually insufficient to support a finding of proximate cause. \n  \n Standard of Review \n In a bench trial, the trial court's findings of facts are reviewed for legal and factual sufficiency under the same legal standards that apply to sufficiency review of jury verdicts.  Catalina v. Blasdel, 881 S.W.2d 295, 297 (Tex. 1994). Under a no-evidence point, we consider only the evidence and inferences, viewed in their most favorable light, that tend to support the finding and disregard all evidence and inferences to the contrary. Id. If there is more than a scintilla of probative evidence to support the finding, we must reject the no-evidence challenge. Id. Under a factual insufficiency point, we consider and weigh all of the evidence in the record.  Ortiz v.  [*7]   Jones, 917 S.W.2d 770, 772 (Tex. 1996). Findings are overturned only if they are so against the great weight and preponderance of the evidence as to be clearly wrong and unjust. Id. When the legal and factual sufficiency of the evidence is challenged, we review the legal sufficiency before reviewing the factual sufficiency. Id. \n  \n 1. Cause in Fact \n In her second issue, Daniels challenges the legal and factual sufficiency of the evidence to support the trial court's finding of cause in fact. In its findings of fact, the trial court found that the presence of smoke detectors in the four-plex would have kept Roseletta from returning into the building. In other words, the absence of properly functioning smoke detectors was the cause in fact of appellees' injuries. \n Proximate cause consists of two elements: (1) cause in fact and (2) foreseeability. Union Pump Co. v. Allbritton, 898 S.W.2d 773, 775 (Tex. 1995). Mere conjecture, guess, or speculation cannot establish these elements.  Doe v. Boys Clubs of Greater Dallas, Inc., 907 S.W.2d 472, 477 (Tex. 1995). \n Cause in fact exists if the defendant's acts or omissions are a substantial factor in bringing about the injury [*8]  which would otherwise have not occurred.  Union Pump, 898 S.W.2d at 775. Cause in fact is not shown if the acts of the defendant did no more than furnish a condition which made the injury possible.  Boys Club of Greater Dallas, 907 S.W.2d at 477. The plaintiff's evidence must establish that the defendant's act or omission was the proximate, and not the remote, cause of the resulting injuries. Id. \n Viewed under a legal sufficiency standard, the evidence shows that Roseletta re-entered the four-plex because she did not hear functioning smoke detectors. If she had heard such an alarm, she would not have re-entered the four-plex in an attempt to rescue other tenants. We find that there is more than a scintilla of evidence to support the trial court's finding that the absence of smoke detectors was the cause in fact of appellees' injuries. \n In determining whether the trial court's finding of cause in fact is against the great weight and preponderance of the evidence, we review all the evidence in the record. Daniels contends that the cause of appellees' injuries was due to Kourtney's starting the fire. She also contends that the cause of appellees' injuries resulted from Roseletta's [*9]  failure to properly supervise her children and from Roseletta's and Kori's re-entering of the burning four-plex on their own volition. \n Daniels's arguments ignore the fact that the emergency situation to which Roseletta reacted was the need to rescue other tenants, which was caused by the absence of warning devices. While it is true that Daniels did not start the fire, it was Daniels's negligence that made appellees' rescue attempts necessary. None of the common areas of the four-plex had smoke detectors. Daniels testified that if there had been smoke detectors in the common areas, the fire that started in appellees' apartment would have triggered these smoke detectors. Further, the evidence showed that the lack of an alarm caused Roseletta to re-enter, and Roseletta's decision to re-enter caused Kori to re-enter. \n Daniels's contentions that appellees' injuries were caused by Roseletta's lack of supervision and Roseletta's and Kori's decisions to re-enter the burning four-plex are also without merit. While it is true that Roseletta and Kori re-entered on their own volition, it was the need to rescue, caused by the absence of a warning, that caused them to re-enter the four-plex. Had [*10]  Roseletta not gone back inside to rescue the other tenants, Kori would not have gone back inside to find his mother. Considering and weighing all the evidence in the record, we find that the trial court's finding of cause in fact is not against the great weight and preponderance of the evidence. \n Daniels argues that this case is analogous to Union Pump, 898 S.W.2d 773, and Lear Siegler, Inc. v. Perez, 819 S.W.2d 470 (Tex. 1991). We disagree. In Union Pump and Lear Siegler, the forces generated by the defendants' negligence had "come to rest." In the present case, the forces generated by Daniels's negligence were still present and ongoing. \n We find that there is legally and factually sufficient evidence to support the trial court's finding of cause in fact. \n We overrule Daniels's second issue. \n  \n 2. Foreseeability \n In her third issue, Daniels challenges the legal and factual sufficiency of the evidence to support the trial court's finding of foreseeability. The trial court found that Roseletta's action in warning her neighbors of the fire was foreseeable. The trial court also found that Kori's act of attempting to rescue his mother was foreseeable. \n Foreseeability,  [*11]  the second element of proximate cause, means that the actor as a person of ordinary intelligence should have anticipated the danger created by his negligent act or omission. Greater Dallas Boys Club, 907 S.W.2d at 478. The danger of injury is foreseeable if its general character might reasonably have been anticipated or contemplated as a result of the defendant's conduct. Id. Foreseeability requires more than mere theorizing an extraordinary sequence of events whereby the defendant's conduct brings about the injury when the facts are viewed in retrospect. Id. \n  \n Under the rescue doctrine, it is well settled that the acts of rescuers are generally the foreseeable results of negligent activity.  Tri-State Wholesale Assoc. Grocers, Inc. v. Barrera, 917 S.W.2d 391, 397 (Tex. App.--El Paso 1996, writ dism'd by agr.). Our supreme court has held that "as a matter of public policy, the rescue doctrine supports the heroic acts of individuals who rush into danger to rescue others from imminent peril." Snellenberger v. Rodriguez, 760 S.W.2d 237, 237 (Tex. 1988). If the acts of the rescuer are reasonable under the circumstances, the choices made with respect to the rescue [*12]  will not be questioned.  Barrera, 917 S.W.2d at 397. \n The rescue doctrine applies when a defendant negligently creates a situation that necessitates a rescue effort, and the rescuer's injuries are reasonably foreseeable as a natural and probable result of such negligence.  Daigle v. Phillips Petroleum Co., 893 S.W.2d 121, 122 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1995, writ dism'd by agr.). In Daigle, this Court held that the rescue doctrine applied to a situation where the rescuer was searching for survivors of an explosion.  893 S.W.2d at 123. The Daigle Court found that the rescue doctrine applied because the explosions that necessitated the rescue were continuing, and the rescuer remained in imminent peril while he continued his search under a reasonable belief that he would find survivors. Id. \n Viewed under a legal sufficiency standard, the evidence shows that no smoke detectors were sounding when Roseletta re-entered. Daniels testified that if there had been smoke detectors in the foyer and common areas at the time of the fire, these smoke detectors would have sounded. In the absence of a warning from a smoke detector, it was reasonable for Roseletta to believe that [*13]  an emergency situation existed, and that it was necessary that she rescue her neighbors. Likewise, it was reasonable for Kori to believe an emergency situation existed, and that it was necessary for him to rescue his mother. We find there is more than a scintilla of evidence to support the trial court's finding that appellees' injuries were foreseeable. \n In determining whether there is factually sufficient evidence to support the trial court's finding of foreseeability, we review all the evidence in the record. Daniels asserts that it was not foreseeable that Kori would re-enter the burning building after waiting outside for five to seven minutes and after being told to stay outside and to not re-enter. While it is true that Kori was told to wait outside and not to re-enter, it was foreseeable that Kori, in an effort to rescue his mother, would re-enter the four-plex because of the emergency situation. The fact that Kori was told not to re-enter the four-plex does not render his act an unforeseeable, intervening cause. It was Daniels's negligence in not installing and maintaining smoke detectors throughout the building that created an emergency situation necessitating Roseletta's rescue [*14]  efforts. Kori re-entered the burning four-plex to rescue his mother, and at the time he re-entered, the emergency situation still was present and ongoing. Considering and weighing all the evidence, we find that the trial court's finding of foreseeability is not against the great weight and preponderance. \n We find that there is legally and factually sufficient evidence to support the trial court's finding of foreseeability. \n We overrule appellant's third issue. \n We affirm the judgment of the trial court. \n Adele Hedges \n Justice \n Panel consists of Justices Cohen, Hedges, and Taft.   \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 