Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n Plaintiff policyholder appealed from the 334th District Court. Harris County, Texas, which granted summary judgment in favor of defendant insurer in the policyholder's action for breach of contract, bad faith, and violations of the Texas Deceptive Trade Practices Act (DTPA) and Tex. Ins. Code Ann. art. 21.21. \n Overview \n The issue was whether the policyholder's claim for mold damage that purportedly resulted from a leaking air conditioning unit in her apartment was covered under her renter's insurance policy. The insurer claimed that there was no evidence that it denied the claim under the named peril she asserted--physical loss caused by the accidental discharge, leakage or overflow of water from within an air conditioning system. The court disagreed and held that the insurer was contending that the policyholder should have completed an inventory form, even though the insurer had unequivocally asserted that the claim would be denied. Therefore, the condition precedent of the inventory was waived. The court reversed on the issue of exclusion because, if a named peril did cause the mold, the damage was a physical loss covered. The court affirmed on the DTPA claims because the policyholder presented no evidence that the insurer misrepresented the policy. The court also affirmed the judgment on the bad faith claim because the fact that there was coverage did not necessarily mean that there was an issue of fact as to whether the insurer should have known that the claim was covered. \n Outcome \n The court reversed and remanded on the policyholder's breach of contract claims and additional DTPA claims. The court affirmed the summary judgment as to the misrepresentation-based and bad-faith claims. \n Counsel: For Appellants: Sheila Lee Haddock, Roger A. Rider, Houston, TX. \n For Appellees: Bruce E. Ramage, Dana T. Williams, Levon G. Hovnatanian, Houston, TX.   \n Judges: Panel consists of Justices Hudson, Fowler, and Frost.   \n Opinion by: Kem Thompson Frost \n Opinion \n  \n  \n  \n OPINION ON MOTION FOR REHEARING \n We grant in part the motion for rehearing filed by appellee United States Automobile Association a/k/a USAA. We withdraw the opinion issued in this case on February 26, 2004, and we issue the following opinion in its place. \n This case arises from an insurance-coverage dispute between a policyholder who suffered mold damage to her apartment and an insurer who denied coverage under a renter's insurance policy. The policyholder sued the insurer asserting claims for breach of contract, bad faith, and violations of both the Texas Deceptive Trade Practices Act ("DTPA") and article 21.21 of the Texas Insurance Code. The trial court granted summary judgment in favor of the insurer. At issue is whether the policyholder's claim for mold damage that purportedly [*2]  resulted from a leaking air conditioning unit in her apartment is covered under her renter's insurance policy. We find coverage for any such damage for which causation is ultimately established, and reverse and remand in part on this issue. We also reverse the trial court's judgment and remand as to the additional DTPA claims. However, we affirm the trial court's judgment as to the misrepresentation-based claims and bad-faith claims. \n  \n I. FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND \n In August of 2000, appellant/plaintiff Christine H. DeLaurentis ("Policyholder") purchased a renter's insurance policy from United Services Automobile Association a/k/a USAA ("Insurer"). The Insurer used a Texas Homeowner's Policy Form B-T ("HOB-T") in issuing the policy. The following month, the Policyholder discovered the air conditioning unit in her apartment was leaking water into the closet of her bedroom, and black mold was growing on one wall of the closet. The apartment complex purportedly repaired the leak and the damage.  \n In June of 2001, the Policyholder concluded that the mold had not been remediated and, in fact, had spread throughout her apartment. She filed a claim with the Insurer, seeking compensation [*3]  under her renter's insurance policy for temporary residence and for remediation of her personal belongings, furniture, art work, and clothing. \n The Policyholder asked the City of Houston to test her apartment for mold in July of 2001. The ambient air in the Policyholder's apartment tested within the normal acceptable range. However, swab samples taken throughout the apartment isolated two fungal items: stachybotrys and penicillium. The Policyholder's belongings and the wall of her closet, which previously had exhibited mold, were not tested. A swab sample taken from another wall of the same closet showed no indications of mold. \n In pursuing her claim, the Policyholder spoke to Brenda Essex, a representative of the Insurer, on two occasions before Essex sent a claims investigator to the Policyholder's apartment. Essex informed the Policyholder during both telephone conversations that her claim would be denied, stating as a basis for the denial that mold is not a named peril in the Policyholder's HOB-T policy. Candace Shook, a claims investigator for the Insurer, went to the Policyholder's apartment on July 19, 2001, and determined from the apartment complex that there had been a leak [*4]  in the air conditioning system. While at the Policyholder's apartment, Shook acknowledged the claim, and on behalf of the Insurer, she offered to pay for what had been damaged by the water. Shook told the Policyholder during the inspection that the mold damage was specifically excluded by the HOB-T policy. That same day, Shook sent the Policyholder a letter reiterating that mold was specifically excluded by the HOB-T policy. However, in the letter Shook informed the Policyholder that the Insurer would pay for damage to any items that had gotten wet from the leak. Additionally, Shook's letter stated that, because the apartment complex had requested the Policyholder to move to another unit so that workers could make additional repairs necessitated by the water damage, the Insurer would cover the expenses associated with a move to another apartment. Shook subsequently sent another letter to the Policyholder's attorney, advising that the Insurer did not believe the HOB-T policy covered any damage that may have been caused by the mold. In order to process the Policyholder's claim, Shook sent a letter on August 30, 2001, requesting the Policyholder to provide an inventory of personal property [*5]  damaged by water. The Policyholder did not provide an inventory. \n The Policyholder sued the Insurer for breach of the insurance policy and asserted claims for bad faith and for violations of the DTPA and the Texas Insurance Code. The parties filed cross-motions for summary judgment, each asking the trial court to interpret the relevant policy provisions as a matter of law. The Policyholder sought partial summary judgment on the issue of coverage; the Insurer sought dismissal of the Policyholder's breach of contract and extra-contractual claims. In addition to raising the policy-coverage issue, the Insurer made the following assertions in its motion: \n (1) The Policyholder's failure to comply with the HOB-T policy conditions precluded coverage; \n (2) There was no evidence to support the Policyholder's claims for bad faith, DTPA violations, and Texas Insurance Code violations; and \n (3) The Policyholder's extra-contractual claims were precluded as a matter of law because they were based on a good faith coverage dispute. \n The trial court initially denied the Policyholder's motion and granted in part and denied in part the Insurer's motion. Additionally, the trial court denied the [*6]  Insurer's motion seeking dismissal of the Policyholder's breach-of-contract claim, but granted dismissal as to the Policyholder's extra-contractual claims. Both parties filed motions for reconsideration. Upon reconsideration, the trial court vacated its previous order and entered a final judgment dismissing all of the Policyholder's claims. \n  \n II. ISSUES PRESENTED \n The Policyholder asserts the following points on appeal: \n 1. Contract Interpretation. The trial court erred in refusing to find coverage as a matter of law for mold damage the Policyholder claims was caused by an air conditioner water leak because the Policyholder's insurance contract provides for a "physical loss" that is "caused by" the "accidental discharge, leakage or overflow of water" from an "air conditioning system" unless "the loss is specifically excluded." \n 2. Waiver of Condition Precedent. The Insurer may not avoid liability for wrongfully denying the Policyholder's claim simply because the Policyholder did not present an itemized list of damaged property when the Insurer rejected the Policyholder's claim immediately and without investigation, contending that mold was not a covered peril under [*7]  the HOB-T policy. \n 3. Extra-Contractual Claims. The Policyholder is entitled to have her extra- contractual claims considered by a jury because the issue presented -- whether an insurer is liable in damages for denying a claim after its liability has become reasonably clear -- is a question of fact rather than law. \n  \n III. STANDARD OF REVIEW \n A summary judgment movant must establish its right to summary judgment on the issues presented to the trial court by conclusively proving all elements of the movant's claim or defense as a matter of law. See TEX. R. CIV. P. 166a(c); Havlen v. McDougall, 22 S.W.3d 343, 345, 43 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 323 (Tex. 2000). 1  We review the summary-judgment evidence using familiar standards of review. See Dolcefino v. Randolph, 19 S.W.3d 906, 916 (Tex. App.--Houston [14th Dist.] 2000, pet. denied). When a trial court's order granting summary judgment does not specify the grounds for the ruling, we must affirm summary judgment if any of the summary-judgment grounds are meritorious. FM Props. Operating Co. v. City of Austin, 22 S.W.3d 868, 872, 43 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 835 (Tex. 2000). \n  [*8]  IV. NON-WAIVER OF CONDITIONS PRECEDENT   \n In her second issue, the Policyholder asserts the trial court erred in granting summary judgment based on the Insurer's argument that, because the Policyholder failed to comply with conditions precedent in her HOB-T policy, she is precluded from suing for breach of the insurance contract. Specifically, the Insurer states that the Policyholder failed to provide the company with a written inventory of the damaged personal property. The Insurer claims the Policyholder's failure prevented the Insurer from inspecting the damaged property and determining whether the Policyholder had sustained a physical loss from a named peril in her policy. The Policyholder argues that the evidence reflects the Insurer did not deny her claim because she failed to meet the conditions precedent in the policy, but simply because she claimed her losses were mold-related. \n The HOB-T policy, under the heading of "Section I--Conditions," and subheading of "Duties After Loss," states: \n a. Your Duties After Loss. In case of a loss to covered property caused by a peril insured against, you must: \n (1) give prompt written notice to us of the facts relating to [*9]  the claim. \n . . . \n (4) furnish a complete inventory of damaged personal property showing the quantity, description and amount of loss. Attach all bills, receipts and related documents which you have that justify the figures in the inventory. \n The Insurer's agents told the Policyholder that only water-damaged property -- items that actually got wet -- would be covered under the HOB-T policy. The Insurer admits its representatives told the Policyholder that her claim for recovery of mold-damaged property would be denied on the stated ground that mold was not a covered peril under her policy. \n The provisions of an insurance policy regarding an insured's duties after a loss are for the benefit of the insurance company. See Sanders v. Aetna Life Ins. Co., 146 Tex. 169, 205 S.W.2d 43, 44-45 (1947) (discussing this principle in the context of notices and proofs of loss). But, an insurer's denial of a claim before the deadline for presenting the required proof of loss (or other documentation) waives that requirement as a matter of law. Id. (finding that, because the insurer denied the claim before the deadline to submit proofs of continued total and permanent disability,  [*10]  the insurer waived that requirement because nothing occurred after the denial that "would indicate to [the insured] that the submission of further proofs of loss would be more than an idle formality"); see also North River Ins. Co. v. Pomerantz, 492 S.W.2d 312, 313 (Tex. App.--Houston [14th Dist.] 1973, writ refused n.r.e.) (stating that "[a] denial of liability by the insurance company within the period allowed for filing proof of loss, on grounds other than the failure to submit proof of loss, constitutes waiver of this requirement"). However, "'it is a well-known principle in this class of cases that the acts relied on as constituting a waiver should be such as are reasonably calculated to make the assured believe that a compliance on his part with the stipulations providing the mode of proof of loss, and regulating the appraisement of the damage done, is not desired, and that it would be of no effect if observed by him.'" Id. (quoting Scottish Union & Nat'l Ins Co. v. Clancey, 83 Tex. 113, 18 S.W. 439, 440-41 (1892)). This court has held that it is of no consequence "whether the insurance company informs the insured that the claim absolutely [*11]  will not be paid or simply indicates that it is not planning to pay the claim unless some new development arises." See North River Ins. Co., 492 S.W.2d at 313. It is enough that the actions of the insurance company would reasonably lead the insured to believe that the company is not going to pay the claim because of some reason other than failure to file the required proof of loss. Id. at 314. The Insurer recognizes this rule of law, but contends it merely mentioned during oral conversations with the Policyholder that the HOB-T policy did not include mold as a named peril. The Insurer argues there is no evidence that it denied the Policyholder's claim under the named peril she was asserting -- physical loss caused by the accidental discharge, leakage or overflow of water from within an air conditioning system. The record does not support the Insurer's argument. The Insurer's representatives told the Policyholder on multiple occasions that the claim for her mold-damaged property would be denied. Shook repeatedly informed the Policyholder that the Insurer would pay only for items that actually got wet. Nothing in the record indicates the Policyholder [*12]  would reasonably have considered the completion of the inventory to be anything more than an idle formality. The Insurer asserts that the Policyholder nonetheless should have completed and returned the inventory of loss its representative requested if the Policyholder truly believed that the mold was caused by leaking water and thus was covered under her HOB-T policy. Essentially, what the Insurer argues is that the Policyholder should have completed the inventory if she believed the claim to be covered despite the Insurer's unequivocal statements, both orally and in writing, that the claim would be denied.  \n Waiver of a condition precedent is evaluated according to what the insured reasonably would have thought under the circumstances. North River Ins. Co., 492 S.W.2d at 314. For the reasons noted, a reasonable policyholder would have considered the filing of an inventory an exercise in futility. Moreover, the inventory the Insurer sought was not a complete inventory of the Policyholder's damaged property, but an inventory of personal items that actually got wet, which logically would have excluded the property the Policyholder claimed was damaged by mold. \n We find [*13]  the Insurer waived the requirement for the personal property inventory when it informed the Policyholder that mold was not covered under her policy and that the Insurer would pay only for items that got wet. The condition precedent having been waived, the Policyholder is not barred from recovery in a suit for breach of the insurance contract. Accordingly, we sustain the Policyholder's second issue. \n  \n V. CONSTRUCTION AND INTERPRETATION OF THE POLICY \n In her first issue, the Policyholder asserts the trial court erred in finding no coverage under the insurance policy. Texas courts interpret insurance policies according to the rules of contract construction. Kelley-Coppedge, Inc. v. Highlands Ins. Co., 980 S.W.2d 462, 464, 42 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 130 (Tex. 1998). In applying these rules, our primary concern is to ascertain the parties' intent as expressed in the language of the policy. See id. at 464. In determining the intention of the parties, we look only within the four corners of the insurance agreement to see what is actually stated, and not what was allegedly meant. See Esquivel v. Murray Guard, Inc., 992 S.W.2d 536, 544 (Tex. App.--Houston [14th Dist.  [*14]  ] 1999, pet. denied). We must give effect to all contractual provisions so that none will be rendered meaningless. Kelley-Coppedge, 980 S.W.2d at 464. If the policy language is worded so that it can be given a definite or certain legal meaning, it is not ambiguous, and we construe it as a matter of law. See id. at 464; cf. Coker v. Coker, 650 S.W.2d 391, 393, 26 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 368 (Tex. 1983) (holding that a contract is "ambiguous when its meaning is uncertain and doubtful or it is reasonably susceptible to more than one meaning"). Whether a contract is ambiguous is a question of law. Kelley-Coppedge, 980 S.W.2d at 464. An ambiguity does not arise simply because the parties offer conflicting interpretations. Id. at 465. \n  \n A. The Operative Policy Provisions \n The Policyholder, as the insured, asserted a first-party claim under her HOB-T policy. A first-party claim sounds in contract and thus is determined by the terms of the insurance agreement between the insurer and the insured. Under the heading of "Section I--Perils Insured Against," and subheading of "Coverage B (Personal Property)," the insuring agreement, states [*15]  in pertinent part: \n We insure against physical loss to the property described in Section I Property Coverage B (Personal Property) caused by a peril listed below, unless the loss is specifically excluded . . . . \n 9. Accidental Discharge, Leakage or Overflow of Water or Steam from within a plumbing, heating or air conditioning system or household appliance. \n The parties dispute whether the policy language obligates the Insurer to pay the Policyholder for mold damage purportedly caused by a leaking air conditioning unit in the Policyholder's apartment. The Policyholder contends the apartment's air conditioning system leaked and caused mold to grow and spread throughout her apartment. The mold allegedly damaged the Policyholder's personal belongings, furniture, art work, and clothing. Thus, she alleges facts that would trigger coverage if the HOB-T policy covers such damage. 2  \n  [*16]  The Insurer contends the Policyholder's claim for purported mold damage to her personal property is not covered because no named peril for "mold" was included in her HOB-T policy. Therefore, the Insurer argues, the Policyholder's real claim is that mold -- not the accidental discharge of water by the air conditioning system -- caused her damage. Must mold be specifically identified as a named peril in the HOB-T policy for coverage to exist? Or, does coverage exist because the Policyholder alleges a "physical loss" caused by a peril named in the policy? To resolve this issue, we must determine the meaning of the operative policy language. No Texas court has addressed this precise issue in construing the language of the standard HOB-T policy. 3  \n  \n  [*17] B. The Meaning of the Policy Language \n  4  \n  [*18]  The HOB-T policy is a named perils policy that covers "physical loss to the property . . . caused by a named peril." It is helpful to our analysis to characterize the perils contributing to the loss and to determine which perils are covered and which are excluded. The accidental discharge, leakage, or overflow of water from within an air conditioning system is a named peril. Because the HOB-T policy is a named-perils policy, all perils not specifically included in the policy are excluded from coverage. See Ingersoll-Rand Fin. Corp. v. Employers Ins. of Wausau, 771 F.2d 910, 912 (5th Cir. 1985). \n If there is a single guiding principle that governs our interpretation of the insurance policy, it is to give effect to the parties' intent as expressed in the policy's plain language. See Forbau v. Aetna Life Ins. Co., 876 S.W.2d 132, 133, 37 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 345 (Tex. 1994). The HOB-T policy does not define the terms "physical loss" or "caused by" so we look to the plain meaning of these undefined terms. "Loss" signifies "the act of losing or the thing lost; it is not a word of limited, hard and fast meaning and has been synonymous with or equivalent to, 'damage' . . . ." BLACK'S [*19]  LAW DICTIONARY 945 (6th ed. 1990) (The word in an insurance policy "means a state of fact of being lost or destroyed, ruin or destruction."). A physical loss is simply one that relates to natural or material things. See WEBSTER'S THIRD NEW INT'L DICT. 1706 (1993) (defining "physical" as "of or relating to natural or material things as opposed to things mental, moral, spiritual, or imaginary"). "Caused" is defined as "to serve as cause or occasion of: bring into existence: make," and "cause" is defined as "something that occasions or effects a result: . . . something that . . . produces a phenomenon." WEBSTER'S THIRD NEW INT'L DICT. at 356. Applying the plain meaning of the policy language, we conclude that the policy covers tangible damage to the Policyholder's personal property by water leaking from an air conditioning unit. Such water leaks can produce mold damage -- a tangible loss to the Policyholder's personal property. Therefore, the policy's plain language, when read in context, giving effect to all contractual provisions, is unambiguous and requires payment for mold damage caused by a leaking air conditioning unit. \n This plain-language interpretation is supported by case [*20]  law. The Tenth Court of Appeals has discussed potential coverage under a different insurance policy by distinguishing between a "physical loss" and a "direct physical loss." See Travelers Indem. Co. v. Jarrett, 369 S.W.2d 653 (Tex. App.--Waco 1963, no writ). In Travelers, the court stated: \n Where insurance against property damage is only against "direct" loss by lightning it has been said the quoted term means "immediate" or "proximate," as distinguished from remote or incidental causes. But a provision insuring against "loss or damage caused by lightning" renders the insurer liable for all known effects of lightning, "and includes all loss or damage which results as a direct and natural consequence of the lightning, notwithstanding other incidental agencies may be incidental in adding to the loss or damage." \n Id. at 655 (quoting 11 COUCH, INSURANCE 2D, §§ 42.355, 42.357) (emphasis added). 5  Thus, Texas courts have determined that a physical loss, as opposed to a direct physical loss, includes the natural consequences of the named peril. Additionally, the United States Supreme Court has determined that all consequences naturally [*21]  flowing from a peril insured against are properly attributable to the peril. Lanasa Fruit S.S. & Importing Co. v. Universal Ins. Co., 302 U.S. 556, 565, 82 L. Ed. 422, 58 S. Ct. 371 (1937). \n A case from the state of Washington illustrates this principle. See Bowers v. Farmers Ins. Exch., 99 Wn. App. 41, 991 P.2d 734 (Wash. Ct. App. 2000). In Bowers, the insurance company denied coverage for mold damage when the insured's rental house was damaged after tenants converted the house into a hothouse for growing marijuana. Id. at 735. As a part of the operation, all heat in the house was diverted to the basement. Id. at 736. As a result of [*22]  the operation, mold grew throughout the house. Id. The insurance company refused to compensate the insured for her mold-related damage, contending mold was excluded under the policy. The insured argued that the cause of her damage was not the mold, but the vandalism of her tenants, a covered peril. The Bowers court held that "here, there can be no reasonable difference of opinion regarding the cause of [the insured's] loss. It was the tenants' acts, which 'in an unbroken sequence . . . [produced] the result for which recovery is sought[.]'" Id. at 738.  \n The Insurer argues, however, that mold damage cannot be covered under the HOB-T policy. It contends that a named-perils policy excludes all risks not specifically included in the insurance contract, and because mold is not a named peril in the policy, mold is excluded from coverage. The Insurer's argument ignores the undeniable fact that mold can be damage. We do not share the Insurer's narrow view, but find that "mold may be either damage or a cause of loss, depending on the circumstances." 6  See Liristis v. Am. Family Mut. Ins. Co., 204 Ariz. 140, 61 P. 3d 22, 25 (Ariz. Ct. App. 2002) (finding [*23]  homeowner's policy did not exclude mold damage caused by a covered event); see also Keenan v. Wausau Lloyd's Ins. Co., 1998 Tex. App. LEXIS 5994, No. 04-98-00087-CV, 1998 WL 652332, at *3 (Tex. App.--San Antonio Sept. 23, 1998, no pet.) (not designated for publication) (holding that homeowner's named-perils policy covered cost for accessing defectively constructed plumbing lines after named peril caused damage to homeowner's property); Kemmerer v. State Farm Ins. Co., 2004 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 2645, No. 01-5445, 2004 WL 87017, at * 2 (E.D. Penn. Jan. 19, 2004) (holding that "if the leak from the powder room caused the mold infestation, that leak would fall within the peril [sudden and accidental discharge or overflow of water] outlined in the homeowner's insurance policy."); Prudential Prop. & Cas. Ins. Co. v. Lillard-Roberts, 2002 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 20387, No. CV-01-1362-ST, 2002 WL 31495830, at * 9-10 (D. Or. June 18, 2002) (finding that, in a named-perils policy, the "accidental discharge or overflow of water" peril provided for coverage of physical mold damage caused by a water leak). \n  [*24]  If a named peril -- the accidental discharge, leakage, or overflow of water from within an air conditioning system -- caused the mold in question, the damage could be a physical loss covered under the HOB-T policy because this type of damage was not specifically excluded from coverage in the policy. Accordingly, we sustain the Policyholder's first issue, reverse the judgment of the trial court, and remand for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. \n VI. THE EXTRA-CONTRACTUAL CLAIMS   \n In her third issue, the Policyholder asserts the trial court erred in granting summary judgment as to her extra-contractual claims. The extra-contractual claims fall into the following categories: (1) misrepresentation-based claims; 7  [*25]  (2) bad-faith claims; 8  and (3) additional DTPA claims. 9  \n The Insurer argues summary judgment was proper on the Policyholder's extra-contractual claims because the [*26]  Policyholder's only complaint was that the Insurer's representatives repeatedly informed her that the HOB-T policy did not identify mold as a named peril. The Insurer contends the misrepresentation-based claims fail because the Policyholder could not identify a single misrepresentation made by the Insurer to support her claims. The Insurer asserts the Policyholder's bad-faith claims fail as a matter of law because the Insurer's liability was not reasonably clear. To support this argument, the Insurer points to (1) the Policyholder's failure to comply with conditions precedent in her HOB-T policy, and (2) the existence of a bona fide dispute regarding coverage. The Policyholder argues, however, that, if there is coverage under the HOB-T policy, fact issues arise as to the reasonableness of the Insurer's conduct, and the Policyholder therefore must be allowed to present her extra-contractual claims to a jury. \n A breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing will give rise to a tort claim that is separate and independent from any claim for breach of the underlying insurance contract. Viles v. Sec. Nat'l Ins. Co., 788 S.W.2d 566, 567, 33 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 412 (Tex. 1990). Bad faith, however,  [*27]  is not established merely by showing the insurer was incorrect about the factual basis for its denial of the claim or about the proper construction of the policy. "The issue in bad faith focuses not on whether the claim was valid but on the reasonableness of the insurer's conduct in rejecting the claim." Lyons v. Millers Cas. Ins. Co., 866 S.W.2d 597, 601, 37 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 241 (Tex. 1993). An insurer breaches its duty of good faith and fair dealing when the insurer knew or should have known it was reasonably clear that the claim was covered. See Universe Life Ins. Co. v. Giles, 950 S.W.2d 48, 56, 40 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 810 (Tex. 1997). Whether there was a reasonable basis for denial must be judged by the facts before the insurer at the time it handled the claim. Viles, 788 S.W.2d at 567. However, there can be no claim for bad faith when an insurer has denied a claim that, in fact, is not covered and the insurer has not otherwise breached the insurance contract. See Liberty Nat'l Fire Ins. Co. v. Akin, 927 S.W.2d 627, 629, 39 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 934 (Tex. 1996). \n A. Did the Policyholder present evidence to support her claims based on misrepresentation?  \n The Policyholder asserted [*28]  misrepresentation-based claims under the DTPA and article 21.21 of the Texas Insurance Code. The Insurer contends there is no evidence it made any misrepresentation to the Policyholder. However, the Policyholder alleges the Insurer "represented that its policy conferred certain rights and coverage when it now claims the policy does not confer such rights." 10  Essentially, the Policyholder complains that the Insurer told her from the first time she contacted the company regarding her claim that the HOB-T policy did not cover her mold-related damage. Notably, the Policyholder does not assert the Insurer ever told her mold-related damage would be covered under the HOB-T policy or that such representations induced her to purchase the HOB-T policy. Rather, the Policyholder contends only that the denials of coverage constitute a false representation because her claim should be covered under the HOB-T policy. The Policyholder points to no other evidence to support her misrepresentation-based claims. We conclude the Policyholder presented no evidence to support these claims. \n  [*29]  Breach of contract allegations will not support a DTPA claim where a "false, misleading or deceptive act" is alleged. See Ashford Dev., Inc. v. U.S. Life Real Estate Servs. Corp., 661 S.W.2d 933, 935, 27 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 118 (Tex. 1983). When the alleged misrepresentations concern a party's failure to fulfill its contractual duties, the alleged failure to later perform the duties does not constitute a misrepresentation under the DTPA. See Crawford v. Ace Sign, Inc., 917 S.W.2d 12, 14, 39 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 296 (Tex. 1996). The Policyholder's allegation is that the Insurer represented it would provide coverage under the terms of the HOB-T policy and the Insurer's denial of coverage means it misrepresented it would perform under the contract. "To accept this reasoning, however, would convert every breach of contract into a DTPA claim." Id. at 15. The Policyholder provided no evidence of a misrepresentation apart from the Insurer's alleged failure to perform under the insurance contract. Accordingly, the trial court properly granted summary judgment with regard to the misrepresentation-based claims, and we overrule the Policyholder's third issue as to these claims. \n  \n B. Did the Policyholder [*30]  present evidence to raise a fact issue regarding her bad-faith claims? \n The Policyholder contends that, if there is policy coverage, then there is a fact issue with regard to her bad-faith claims. The Insurer argues, however, that the bad-faith claims fail as a matter of law because (1) the Policyholder failed to comply with conditions precedent in her HOB-T policy, and (2) the Policyholder did not raise a fact issue because there was a bona fide dispute regarding coverage. The condition-precedent argument fails for the same reasons discussed in section IV, above. See Viles, 788 S.W.2d at 567 (stating that the record showed the insurer denied plaintiffs' claims before the proof of loss was due, so "the failure to file that form within the 91-day period could not have been a basis for denial"). \n As to the second argument, the Insurer argues evidence that shows a bona fide dispute about its potential liability under the contract cannot serve as a basis for the Policyholder's bad-faith claims. See United States Fire Ins. Co. v. Williams, 955 S.W.2d 267, 268, 40 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 892 (Tex. 1997) (noting that "evidence that only shows a bona fide dispute about the insurer's liability [*31]  on the contract does not rise to the level of bad faith"). A bona fide dispute exists when the insurer had a reasonable basis to deny the disputed claim. Id. Significantly, the focus is not on the validity of the policyholder's claim, but on the reasonableness of the insurer's conduct at the time it handled her claim. See Lyons, 866 S.W.2d at 601. "An insurer will be liable [for bad faith] if the insurer knew or should have known . . . it was reasonably clear that the claim was covered." Giles, 950 S.W.2d at 56.  \n In this case, the Insurer contends that its interpretation of the HOB-T policy, even if erroneous, served as a reasonable basis for it to deny the Policyholder's claim and thus there was a bona fide dispute regarding coverage. We agree that a simple misconstruction of a policy provision alone cannot serve as the basis for a bad-faith claim, but the circumstances surrounding the denial must be considered. See Williams, 955 S.W.2d at 269. Although the question of whether an insurer has breached its duty of good faith and fair dealing is typically a fact issue, we may decide the issue as a matter of law when there is no [*32]  conflict in the evidence. Giles, 950 S.W.2d at 56. The trial court erred in granting summary judgment on the Policyholder's bad-faith claims if the Policyholder presented some evidence that the Insurer had no reasonable basis to deny coverage and thus created a fact issue regarding her bad-faith claims. See Emmert, 882 S.W.2d at 36.  \n In the trial court, the Policyholder asserted a single ground why there is a fact issue precluding summary judgment on her bad-faith claims, namely that a finding of coverage under the policy precludes summary judgment as to the bad-faith claims. 11  However, an insurer cannot be liable for bad faith simply because it misinterprets a provision in a policy. See Williams, 955 S.W.2d at 269. Moreover, the fact that there is coverage under the policy does not necessarily mean there is a genuine issue of material fact regarding whether the insurer knew or should have known that the claim was covered. See Giles, 950 S.W.2d at 56. The Policyholder attached no evidence to her response to the Insurer's motion for summary judgment relating to the bad-faith claims nor did she assert that any summary-judgment [*33]  evidence would raise a genuine issue of material fact regarding those claims. Thus, the trial court properly granted summary judgment on the Policyholder's bad-faith claims. We overrule the Policyholder's third issue as to those claims. \n  \n C. The trial court erred in granting summary judgment as to the additional DTPA claims. \n In its motion for summary judgment, the Insurer did not specifically attack the merits of the Policyholder's additional DTPA claims. Rather, the Insurer relied on the arguments it presented to support summary judgment as to the bad-faith claims, namely that the Policyholder failed to satisfy conditions precedent in her HOB-T policy and that mold was not covered under the policy. We have determined that the Insurer waived the conditions precedent [*34]  and that mold caused by the accidental leakage of water could be covered under the policy. Thus, the trial court erred in granting summary judgment as to the additional DTPA claims because none of the meritorious grounds in the Insurer's motion for summary judgment result in the dismissal of these claims. See Stiles v. Resolution Trust Corp., 867 S.W.2d 24, 26, 37 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 274 (Tex. 1993) (summary-judgment ruling cannot be affirmed on grounds not expressly raised in the trial court). Accordingly, we sustain the Policyholder's third issue as to her additional DTPA claims. \n  \n VII. CONCLUSION \n Under the unambiguous language of the HOB-T policy, the Insurer is obligated to compensate the Policyholder for any mold damage she can prove was caused by a leaking air conditioning unit in her apartment. The trial court erred in finding any such damage is not covered under the terms of the HOB-T policy and in granting summary judgment in favor of the Insurer on the Policyholder's contract claims. With regard to the extra-contractual claims, the Policyholder failed to present either evidence or argument to support her misrepresentation-based claims and bad-faith claims. Accordingly, the trial [*35]  court properly granted summary judgment as to those claims. The trial court erred in granting summary judgment as to the additional DTPA claims because none of the meritorious grounds in the Insurer's motion were directed to these claims. Therefore, we reverse the judgment of the trial court to the extent it dismissed the Policyholder's breach-of-contract claim and additional DTPA claims, and we sever and remand these claims for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. We affirm the trial court's judgment dismissing the misrepresentation-based claims and the bad-faith claims.  \n /s/ Kem Thompson Frost \n Justice  \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 