Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n Appellant challenged the decision of the 166th Judicial District Court, Bexar County (Texas), which granted summary judgment for appellees company and owner in appellant's negligence action following the death of her husband at work. \n Overview \n Appellant was the wife of the deceased, who died while fishing as part of his employment for appellees company and owner. Appellant sued for negligence in failing to provide or use adequate flotation devices, failing to maintain control of the boat or keep it in safe condition, failing to perform adequate rescue attempts, failing to warn, creating a hazardous condition, and operating the boat in willful or wanton disregard for the safety of the deceased. She later amended her complaint to include a claim for negligence per se and a claim under Tex. Parks & Wild. Code Ann. §§ 31.094, 31.106 (1991 & Supp. 1997). Appellees' summary judgment motion, which was granted by the trial court, responded only to the original complaint, not the amended one. On appeal, the court concluded that appellees failed to demonstrate there were no questions of fact, because they did not address all the claims. The court reversed and remanded the case. It also held that because appellees were not entitled to summary judgment on the unaddressed allegation of negligence per se, they were not entitled to summary judgment on any of the other negligence claims. \n Outcome \n The court reversed the trial court's order and remanded the case. The trial court erred in granting summary judgment for appellees company and owner in the negligence action by appellant for the death of her husband, as appellees failed to responded to various allegations in appellant's complaint and amended complaint. \n Judges: Opinion by: Karen Angelini, Justice. Sitting: Catherine Stone, Justice, Paul W. Green, Justice, Karen Angelini, Justice.   \n Opinion by: KAREN ANGELINI \n Opinion \n  \n  \n This appeal arises from the granting of summary judgment in favor of appellees, Robert Packard and Banjo Distributing Company, in a wrongful death case. In three points of error, appellant, Jeanette Galin, contends that the trial court erred in granting appellees' motion for summary judgment because the summary judgment evidence raised questions of fact, appellees' motion did not address all of appellant's claims, and appellees' motion was not supported by appropriate evidence. We reverse the judgment of the trial court. \n  \n Factual and Procedural Background \n On July 24, 1993, Ronald Galin and appellee, Robert Packard, were fishing in Packard's boat on Lake Medina. The summary judgment evidence indicates that [*2]  when the two men started out shortly before daylight, they both wore life preservers. Once they reached the location where they planned to fish, they removed the life preservers and began fishing for bass. Packard was fishing from the bow of the boat while Galin fished from the stern of the boat. They had their backs to each other. After they had been fishing for approximately two hours, Packard heard a splash. He turned and saw Galin in the water. Packard went to the rear of the boat and extended a fishing pole to Galin, but when Galin grabbed the pole, it came apart. Packard then threw Galin a rope, but Galin did not take hold of it. Finally, Packard threw Galin a flotation device, but, again, Galin did not reach it. Packard returned to the front of the boat in order to turn the boat around and move it closer to Galin. When Packard turned around, Galin had gone under water and did not resurface. Galin drowned. Packard did not see Galin fall into the water and could only guess as to the reasons for his fall. Galin was reported to be a strong swimmer.  \n Galin's wife, appellant Jeanette Galin, brought survivorship and wrongful death actions against Packard and his company, Banjo Distributing [*3]  Company, Inc. ("Banjo"), alleging that Packard's negligence was the proximate cause of Galin's death. Packard and Banjo filed a joint motion for summary judgment, to which Jeanette Galin timely responded. Following a hearing on the motion, the trial court granted summary judgment in favor of Packard and Banjo. \n  \n Argument and Authority \n In her first point of error, Jeanette Galin contends that Packard and Banjo failed to establish that there are no questions of fact raised by the pleadings and evidence in this case. In her second point of error, she contends that the trial court erred in granting summary judgment as to all of her claims because Packard and Banjo failed to adequately address all of those claims in their motion for summary judgment. In her original petition, Galin alleged that Packard was negligent for (1) failing to provide adequate flotation devices; (2) failing to use or require the use of flotation devices; (3) failing to maintain proper control of the boat; (4) failing to maintain the boat in a safe condition; (5) failing to perform adequate rescue attempts; (6) failing to warn; (7) creating a hazardous condition; and (8) operating a boat in willful or wanton [*4]  disregard for the safety of the deceased. \n In their joint motion for summary judgment, Packard and Banjo acknowledged all of Galin's claims; however, they argued that Galin's claims could be reduced to two theories of liability: (1) the failure of Packard to require the use of flotation devices and (2) the failure of Packard to rescue Galin. The motion for summary judgment contained argument addressing only these two theories. After Packard and Banjo filed their motion for summary judgment, Galin amended her petition to include negligence per se causes of action for alleged violations of the Texas Parks and Wildlife Code. Packard and Banjo never amended their motion for summary judgment in response to these negligence per se allegations. \n The Texas Rules of Civil Procedure require that a motion for summary judgment shall "state the specific grounds therefor" and that summary judgment shall be granted only where the movant has shown entitlement to judgment "on the issues expressly set out in the motion." TEX. R. CIV. P. 166a (c). Where the movant has failed to address certain issues in its motion, the movant is not entitled to summary judgment on those issues.  Chessher v. Southwestern  [*5]   Bell Telephone Co., 658 S.W.2d 563, 564 (Tex. 1983); City of Houston v. Clear Creek Basin Auth., 589 S.W.2d 671, 675-77 (Tex. 1979). On appeal, a summary judgment can be neither reversed nor affirmed on any ground not specifically presented in writing at the summary judgment proceeding.  Stiles v. Resolution Trust Corp., 867 S.W.2d 24, 26 (Tex. 1993); Carlisle v. Philip Morris, Inc., 805 S.W.2d 498, 518 (Tex. App. -- Austin 1991, writ denied); Great-Ness Professional Services, Inc. v. First Nat'l Bank of Louisville, 704 S.W.2d 916, 918 (Tex. App. -- Houston [14th Dist.] 1986, no writ). These rules must be very strictly construed given the harsh nature of the summary judgment remedy. See Bryant v. Winn-Dixie Stores, Inc., 786 S.W.2d 547, 548 (Tex. App. -- Fort Worth 1990, writ denied), cert. denied, 498 U.S. 1126, 112 L. Ed. 2d 1194, 111 S. Ct. 1090 (1991). \n Packard and Banjo point out that they expressly recognized all eight of the acts of negligence alleged by Galin, but that they chose to narrow those claims to "the central theories of liability at issue." According to Packard and Banjo, they could only be held liable for negligence under the facts [*6]  of this case if Packard had either (1) owed a duty to provide and require the use of flotation devices or (2) owed a duty to make successful rescue efforts. In her brief, Galin argues, without apparent reservation, that Packard and Banjo erroneously narrowed Galin's eight theories of negligence to only two. During the oral submission of this case, however, Galin's attorney stated to the court that he believed all eight of Galin's original negligence claims had in fact been addressed, albeit insufficiently, by Packard's two theories of liability argument. \n Whether an issue has been addressed in a pleading or motion is a question not generally subject to debate -- either the issue has been addressed or it has not. This is particularly true in cases of summary judgment, where Rule 166a mandates that issues must be expressly set out in the motion for summary judgment, TEX. R. CIV. P. 166a (c) (emphasis added), and case law requires that the record must be viewed strictly in favor of the non-movant. See Bryant, 786 S.W.2d at 548. Parties cannot concede a question of law necessary to the proper disposition of a point of error.  Haas v. Voigt, 940 S.W.2d 198, 203 (Tex. App. --  [*7]  San Antonio 1996, writ requested). Because a summary judgment cannot, as a matter of law, be granted on the entirety of the non-movant's case unless the motion specifically and completely addresses each cause of action, we are not bound by Packard's oral concession in determining whether the summary judgment was appropriately granted. \n A motion for summary judgment must be analyzed in light of the pleadings in order to determine whether the motion effectively defeats every cause of action alleged in the petition. TIMOTHY PATTON, SUMMARY JUDGMENTS IN TEXAS: PRACTICE PROCEDURE AND REVIEW,  § 3.06[3] at 26 (2d ed. 1996). We do not to see how Galin's allegations of failing to maintain proper control of the boat, failure to maintain the boat in a safe condition, failure to warn, creating a hazardous situation, and operating the boat in a willful and/or wanton disregard for the safety of the deceased were conclusively addressed and defeated for summary judgment purposes by the flotation device and rescue theories of liability Packard and Banjo presented in their motion. These claims were simply not addressed in the motion for summary judgment. To hold otherwise would require inference [*8]  and speculation not permitted on summary judgment review. "Even if as a matter of basic logic, the factual circumstances of the case would seem to entitle the movant to summary judgment, if the motion does not raise that 'logical' basis for receiving judgment as a matter of law, the movant is not entitled to summary judgment." Id. (citing Dhillon v. General Accident Ins. Co., 789 S.W.2d 293, 294-95 (Tex. App. -- Houston [14th Dist.] 1990, no writ)). \n Packard and Banjo argue on appeal that because the summary judgment evidence indicated that the boat at issue was in good condition and that Packard exercised care in operating the boat, Galin's allegations of failure to maintain proper control of the boat and negligent operation of the boat do not exist independently of the flotation device and rescue theories. Such argument belies the supreme court's instruction that "an appellate court cannot read between the lines, infer or glean from the pleadings or the proof any grounds for granting the summary judgment other than those grounds expressly set forth before the trial court in the motion for summary judgment." McConnell v. Southside Independent School Dist., 858 S.W.2d [*9]  337, 343 (Tex. 1993). A motion for summary judgment may not be upheld on grounds not specifically asserted in the motion, even if the summary judgment proof supports those grounds.  Id. at 342.  \n Packard and Banjo further claim that the three remaining allegations, failure to maintain the boat in a safe condition, failure to warn, and creating a hazardous condition, were resolved via the two theories of liability set forth in their motion for summary judgment. However, Packard and Banjo give no explanation, either on appeal or in their motion for summary judgment, of how these three allegations can be conclusively addressed by their flotation device and rescue theories. Again, this argument ignores the fact that a summary judgment movant must establish his entitlement to a summary judgment on the issues expressly presented to the trial court. See Great-Ness Professional Services, 704 S.W.2d at 918. If Packard and Banjo wanted to clarify, refine, or consolidate the issues presented in Galin's pleadings, the proper vehicle by which to do so was a special exception, not a motion for summary judgment. See Subia v. Texas Dept. of Human Services, 750 S.W.2d 827, 829 (Tex.  [*10]  App. -- El Paso 1988, no writ) (stating that purpose of special exception is to force clarification and specification of vague or indefinite pleadings). Summary judgment should be used, not in situations where there are questions regarding the theory of liability under which each allegation is made, but in circumstances where it is conclusively established that there is no issue of material fact as to any of the allegations and the movant is unequivocally entitled to judgment as a matter of law. See Nixon v. Mr. Property Mgmt. Co., Inc., 690 S.W.2d 546, 548 (Tex. 1985); Clear Creek Basin Auth., 589 S.W.2d at 678; TEX. R. CIV. P. 166a(c). Such conclusive proof may only be presented when each allegation is expressly addressed and refuted in a motion for summary judgment.  \n Clearly, Packard and Banjo did not specifically address at least five of Galin's eight accusations of negligence in their motion for summary judgment. As such, Packard and Banjo are not entitled to summary judgment on Galin's negligence cause of action. See Langston v. Eagle Printing Co., 797 S.W.2d 66, 69 (Tex. App. -- Waco 1990, no writ) (holding that absent motion for summary judgment specifically [*11]  addressing each basis for liability in defamation action, summary judgment was inappropriate).  \n Packard and Banjo argue that, if we find that they did not adequately address all of Galin's allegations of negligence, this court should affirm the trial court's judgment as to the allegations actually addressed and reverse as to the others. Given the state of the pleadings at the time the judgment was entered in this case, we are unable to entertain such a request. All of the acts of negligence alleged in Galin's petition comprise one negligence cause of action. All of the cases we were able to find in which summary judgments have been affirmed in part and reversed in part involve two or more causes of action, not multiple allegations within a single cause of action. See, e.g., Hennigan v. I.P. Petroleum Co., 858 S.W.2d 371, 373 (Tex. 1993); Casso v. Brand, 776 S.W.2d 551, 559 (Tex. 1989); Johnston v. Vilardi, 817 S.W.2d 794, 797 (Tex. App. -- Houston [1st Dist.] 1991, writ denied). In fact, this court has recently refused to effectively split a single cause of action in similar circumstances. See Silvas v. Ghiatas, 1997 Tex. App. LEXIS 3148, *12, No. 4-96-695-CV [*12]  (Tex. App. -- San Antonio June 18, 1997, n.w.h.) (holding that plaintiff's medical negligence cause of action must stand or fall as a unit when challenged by motion for summary judgment). Because Galin is not entitled to summary judgment on the unaddressed negligence allegations, summary judgment as to any portion of the negligence claim is inappropriate. Id.  \n With regard to Galin's negligence per se causes of action, Packard and Banjo contend that they sufficiently addressed the negligence per se claims in their motion for summary judgment even though those claims were not made until after the motion was filed. We disagree. The negligence per se allegations made include: (1) failure to render assistance in violation of TEX. PARKS & WILDLIFE CODE ANN. § 31.104(1) (Vernon 1991); operating a vessel or motorboat in a reckless or negligent manner in violation of TEX. PARKS & WILDLIFE CODE ANN. § 31.094 (Vernon 1991); and (3) operating the vessel without U.S. Coast Guard approved flotation devices in violation of TEX. PARKS & WILDLIFE CODE ANN. § 31.106 (Vernon Supp. 1997). Even assuming that claims added by amendment could be defeated before they were actually made, the arguments [*13]  made in Packard and Banjo's motion for summary judgment do not sufficiently address, much less defeat, the negligence per se allegations at issue. \n While Packard and Banjo referenced section 31.104(1) in their motion, their argument focused on the fact that there is no common law duty to rescue in Texas and that Texas case law is devoid of a requirement that any rescue attempt taken be successful. Packard and Banjo did not address whether Packard did all that was "practicable and necessary" to save Galin as required by section 31.104(1). See TEX. PARKS & WILDLIFE CODE ANN. § 31.104(1) (Vernon 1991). Therefore, summary judgment was inappropriate as to section 31.104(1). As discussed above, Packard and Banjo also wholly failed to address Packard's operation of the boat at issue. Accordingly, summary judgment is likewise inappropriate as to section 31.094. Finally, although Packard and Banjo present argument regarding the use of flotation devices in their motion for summary judgment, they never referenced section 31.106. Accordingly, summary judgment as to section 31.106 was inappropriate as well. This is true, even though Packard and Banjo seem to have viable defenses to both sections [*14]  31.094 and 31.106. \n The fact that Galin amended her petition to add new causes of action after Packard and Banjo filed their motion for summary judgment does not alleviate Packard and Banjo from their burden to conclusively establish entitlement to summary judgment as a matter of law on each cause of action contained in Galin's pleadings at the time the judgment was entered.  Johnson v. Rollen, 818 S.W.2d 180, 183 (Tex. App. -- Houston [1st Dist.] 1991, writ denied); Harris v. Varo, Inc., 814 S.W.2d 520, 526 (Tex. App. -- Dallas 1991, no writ). A party may amend its pleadings at the last minute, and a summary judgment that does not address those new grounds cannot be affirmed.  Schauer v. Memorial Care Systems, 856 S.W.2d 437, 443 (Tex. App. -- Houston [1st Dist.] 1993, no writ) (citing Goswami v. Metropolitan Sav. & Loan Ass'n, 751 S.W.2d 487, 490-91 (Tex.1988)). Because Packard and Banjo's original motion for summary judgment could not, in theory, and did not, in fact, specifically address and defeat Galin's negligence per se allegations, the trial court erred in granting summary judgment as to those causes of action.  \n Because we find that the trial court erred [*15]  in granting summary judgment on both Galin's negligence and negligence per se causes of action, it is unnecessary to address Galin's remaining point of error in which she contends that the summary judgment proof was inadequate. The judgment of the trial court is reversed and that the case is remanded to the trial court for further proceedings. \n KAREN ANGELINI \n JUSTICE  \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 