Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n Appellant challenged a summary judgment from the 225th District Court of Bexar County, (Texas) in a medical malpractice case that was granted in favor of appellee physician. Appellant had brought suit alleging that appellee was negligent in the performance of his back surgery and follow-up care. Appellant made multiple assertions of error on appeal. \n Overview \n Appellant challenged a trial court summary judgment in a medical malpractice case for appellee physician. Appellant sued appellee alleging negligent performance of his back surgery and follow-up care. Appellant contended the summary judgment was erroneously granted based on limitations grounds because appellee had fraudulently concealed his negligence, thus appellant was not given a reasonable opportunity to discover the malpractice in violation of the open courts doctrine. Appellant also contended error because appellant raised fact issues as to whether appellee violated the standard of care during appellant's follow-up care. The court reversed the trial court judgment for the appellee physician and remanded the case for further proceedings. The court found the summary judgment on limitations grounds as to appellant's claims regarding the use of the Steffee plates in the absence of Food and Drug Administration approval and the use of the wrapping technique was improper given their discovery was possibly fraudulently concealed so that appellant lacked a reasonable opportunity to discover the malpractice. Genuine fact issues existed as to follow-up care claims. \n Outcome \n The court reversed the trial court judgment for appellee physician and remanded. The court found the summary judgment on limitations grounds as to appellant's claim regarding the use of the Steffee plates in the absence of Food and Drug Administration approval was improper because the limitations period violated the open courts doctrine. \n Judges: Opinion By: Tom Rickhoff, Justice. Dissenting Opinion By: Phil Hardberger, Justice. Sitting: Tom Rickhoff, Justice, Phil Hardberger, Justice, Sarah B. Duncan, Justice, concur in the judgment only.   \n Opinion by: TOM RICKHOFF \n Opinion \n  \n  \n This is a medical malpractice case. Appellant, Robert Hattaway, appeals from a summary judgment granted in favor of Dr. Stephen Earle in an action alleging Earle was negligent in his performance of Hattaway's back surgery and follow-up care. In eight points of error, Hattaway contends (1) the summary judgment was erroneously granted based on limitations because Dr. Earle fraudulently concealed his negligence; (2) the summary judgment was erroneously granted based on limitations because appellant was not given a reasonable opportunity to discover the malpractice in violation of the open courts doctrine; (3) the summary judgment was erroneously granted because [*2]  appellant raised fact issues as to whether Dr. Earle violated the standard of care during appellant's follow-up care and whether such violation proximately caused appellant's injury; and (4) the trial court erroneously sustained Dr. Earle's hearsay objections to portions of appellant's affidavit. \n  \n FACTS \n Dr. Earle performed an operation on appellant on April 4, 1991, wherein a metal bone plate and screws were inserted in appellant's back, together with a bone growth stimulator to assist in the fusion process. Dr. Earle was present at a seminar in November of 1990, prior to appellant's surgery, wherein physicians were cautioned by a manufacturer's representative against allowing the leads from the transmitter unit or stimulator to come in contact with the metal plate or screws. Dr. Earle challenged this conclusion, and a study was undertaken to determine whether the precaution was appropriately founded in fact; however, the doctor in charge of the study passed away, and Dr. Earle was uncertain as to whether the study was concluded. Notwithstanding this precaution, Dr. Earle wrapped the stimulator leads around the metal screws during appellant's operation. \n In October of 1992,  [*3]  approximately eighteen months after the surgery, appellant started experiencing a significant increase in pain. The summary judgment evidence of the parties is contradictory as to the timing and extent of appellant's knowledge and understanding of the cause of the pain. It is undisputed, however, that Dr. Earle referred appellant to Dr. Murphy for a series of epidural steroid injections as a means to manage the pain on or about December 8, 1992.  \n Dr. Murphy's affidavit states appellant told him on May 25, 1993 that he was being considered for removal of his plates; however, it is not clear from the actual medical reports whether Dr. Murphy learned this from appellant or Dr. Earle. Dr. Murphy's medical report dated June 18, 1993 indicates that Dr. Earle was concerned that much of appellant's pain was due to either irritation along the screws or instability above the Steffee plates. Dr. Murphy's affidavit states that it was his opinion that appellant "understood his back pain could be caused by the Steffee hardware in his back or by loosening around the screws." \n Dr. Earle's affidavit also states that he told appellant on May 24, 1993 that appellant might require his hardware removed [*4]  and that Dr. Earle discussed his concern that appellant's pain was from hardware or instability of the plates. Dr. Earle's medical report for that date verifies this conversation: \n Plan: We will continue his conservative treatment and exercise program and schedule him for repeat lumbar epidural steroid injections and see him back after this is done. If not much improved, he is to consider hardware removal. He understands his treatment options. We will see him back after this is done. \n Dr. Earle's affidavit further states appellant was again told on June 21, 1993, that his pain was caused by his hardware or loosening of the implants (most commonly caused by a non-healing fusion). Dr. Earle's medical report for that date verifies this statement: "At this point in time both he and I agree that we should wait on any type of hardware removal, although he may require this in the future." \n Appellant's affidavit states Dr. Earle provided various reasonable explanations for his pain on different occasions, including physical therapy discomfort and tearing of scar tissue. In his deposition, appellant stated he was told in September of 1993 that he may have to undergo surgery [*5]  in the future to take out the hardware, but in his affidavit, appellant clarifies that the hardware was only to be removed if the pain could not be tolerated. He understood the pain to be caused by the screw points, not by loosened hardware, and this understanding is confirmed in Dr. Earle's medical records dated June 9, 1993, wherein it is stated: "He is due to see Dr. Murphy this week on Thursday to block each individual screw head to see if this would alleviate his symptoms. If it does, he would be a candidate reasonably for hardware removal; if not, I would suggest that he leave it alone." Appellant specifically denies being told the fusion had failed or that the hardware had loosened, but insists he was told the hardware was firm, his back was stable, and the pain was caused by the sharp points on the screws. This is also somewhat confirmed by Dr. Earle's medical report dated December 27, 1993, wherein he states: "Stress x-rays of the lumbar spine revealed stable operate site with pedicle screw and plate fixation…. There appears to be no evidence of hardware loosening or failure on flexion extension views." 1   \n  [*6]  Appellant's last visit with Dr. Earle was on February 24, 1994. Sometime in March of 1994, appellant stated his sister told him about a 20/20 program discussing back surgery. The program related to the absence of FDA approval for the implantation of the hardware used by Dr. Earle in appellant's lower spine. After learning of this program, appellant sought the advice of an attorney on or about March 11, 1994. \n On March 15, 1994, appellant was seen by Dr. Murphy, whose medical report indicates appellant complained of and perceived the plate movement and hardware loosening. Appellant started seeing Dr. Brad Hall in April, 1994, and had surgery on May 12, 1994 to remove the hardware. Dr. Hall's records are not in the transcript. Dr. Earle reviewed these records and reached the following conclusions in his affidavit: \n The description of the operation shows Mr. Hattaway's back had not healed ("fused") solidly. Because of the patient's failure to heal, screws I had placed had loosened. Both the patient's failure to heal and the loosening were known complications to his April 1991 surgery. They occur despite the best of surgical care and do not reflect a surgical error or omission [*7]  based on reasonable medical probability. Further, the description of his May 12, 1994 surgery, confirms that I properly installed the plates, screws and bone growth stimulator in April, 1991, specifically the first paragraph that describes the implant removal and placement of electrodes for the bone growth stimulator. Simply stated, there is no tangible evidence of negligence in that May 12, 1994 removal surgery. \n On May 19, 1994, appellant gave Dr. Earle notice of his claim as required by article 4590i of the Medical Liability and Insurance Improvement Act and filed suit in January of 1995. Appellant claimed he did not discover that Dr. Earle deliberately attached the leads from the stimulator to the hardware screws until Dr. Earle's deposition in April of 1995, and that appellant had not developed sufficient information to justify filing his suit until January of 1995. \n ARGUMENTS ON APPEAL \n In eight points of error, appellant contends (1) the summary judgment was erroneously granted based on limitations because Dr. Earle fraudulently concealed his negligence (2) the summary judgment was erroneously granted based on limitations because appellant was not given a reasonable opportunity [*8]  to discover the malpractice in violation of the open courts doctrine; (3) the summary judgment was erroneously granted because appellant raised fact issues as to whether Dr. Earle violated the standard of care during appellant's follow-up care and whether such violation proximately caused appellant's injury; and (4) the trial court erroneously sustained Dr. Earle's hearsay objections to portions of appellant's affidavit. Because we do not find it necessary to consider the excluded portions of appellant's affidavit in reaching our decision with respect to appellant's other contentions, we do not address appellant's seventh and eighth points of error that contend the trial court erred in ordering portions of his affidavit excluded as hearsay. \n  \n 1. Limitations and Fraudulent Concealment  \n  \n In order to prevent a health care liability claim from being barred by limitations, suit must be filed within two years from either: (1) the occurrence of the breach or tort; (2) the date the medical or health care treatment that is the subject of the claim is completed; or (3) the date the hospitalization for which the claim is made is completed. 2  TEX. REV. CIV. STAT. ANN. art. 4590i, § 10.01 [*9]  (Vernon Supp. 1996); see also Arredondo v. Hilliard, 904 S.W.2d 754, 757 (Tex. App.--San Antonio 1995), rev'd on other grounds, Baptist Memorial Hospital System v. Arredondo, 922 S.W.2d 120, 1996 Tex. LEXIS 14, 39 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 286 (1996)(motion for rehearing pending); Adkins v. Tafel, 871 S.W.2d 289, 291-92 (Tex. App.--Fort Worth 1994, no writ). In general, the limitations period runs from the date of the breach or tort, if such date is ascertainable.  Kimball v. Brothers, 741 S.W.2d 370, 372 (Tex. 1987). Where an action raises complaints regarding both the surgical procedure and the subsequent follow-up care, the limitations period for claims alleging negligence in the performance of the surgical procedure or the choice of procedure runs from the date of the surgery while the limitations period for claims based on the follow-up care runs from the date of final treatment.  Stover v. Gormley, 883 S.W.2d 278, 281-82 (Tex. App.--Amarillo 1994), rev'd on other grounds, 907 S.W.2d 448 (Tex. 1995). Therefore, we must consider the limitations period for the claims based on appellant's surgical procedure and the technique used separately from the claims based [*10]  on negligence in appellant's follow-up care. \n Fraudulent concealment is an affirmative defense to the defense of limitations and tolls the limitations period. Arredondo, 904 S.W.2d at 758. Fraudulent concealment is based on the concept of equitable estoppel and prevents the wrongdoer [*11]  from perpetrating fraud further by using a limitations defense as a shield.  Borderlon v. Peck, 661 S.W.2d 907, 908 (Tex. 1983). Thus, fraudulent concealment estops a defendant from asserting limitations as a defense. Id. The estoppel effect of fraudulent concealment ends when the plaintiff learns facts, conditions and circumstances that would lead a reasonably prudent person to make an inquiry.  Id. at 909. What a reasonable person knows or should know is generally a question of fact. Id. \n The developing case law has created an inconsistency in the burden of proof where the non-movant opposing a motion for summary judgment raises fraudulent concealment as an affirmative defense to limitations in a medical malpractice action. Generally, if the non-movant asserts that a tolling provision applies to a limitations bar, the movant is required to conclusively negate the application of the tolling provision to be entitled to summary judgment. Jennings v. Burgess, 917 S.W.2d 790, 1996 Tex. LEXIS 24, 39 Tex. Sup. Ct. J. 369, 370 (1996). Since fraudulent concealment applies to toll limitations, the general rule would dictate that the movant conclusively negate fraudulent concealment;  [*12]  however, the actual burden is on the non-movant to raise a fact question as to each of the elements of fraudulent concealment. American Petrofina, Inc. v. Allen, 887 S.W.2d 829, 830 (Tex. 1994); see also TIMOTHY PATTON, SUMMARY JUDGMENTS IN TEXAS 182-82 (1995)(discussing inconsistency). \n Another potential inconsistency arises when the more recently identified elements of fraudulent concealment are compared to the traditionally defined elements and other established definitions. Fraudulent concealment has traditionally been defined as consisting of two elements: (1) the defendant's actual knowledge of the wrong; and (2) the defendant's fixed purpose to conceal the wrong.  Arredondo, 904 S.W.2d at 758; Adkins, 871 S.W.2d at 295; Waters ex rel. Walton v. Del-Ky, Inc., 844 S.W.2d 250, 256 (Tex. App.--Dallas 1992, no writ). Some courts, however, have more recently identified four elements: (1) the existence of the underlying tort; (2) the defendant's knowledge of the tort; (3) the defendant's use of deception of fixed purpose to conceal the tort; and (4) the plaintiff's reasonable reliance on the deception. See DiGrazia v. Old, 900 S.W.2d 499, 502 (Tex. App.--Texarkana [*13]  1995, no writ); Arabian Shield Dev. Co.  v. Hunt, 808 S.W.2d 577, 584 (Tex. App.--Dallas 1991, writ denied). Although the Texas Supreme Court has not specifically included this first element in its definition of fraudulent concealment, the Texas Supreme Court has cited the Dallas appellate court's decision in Arabian Shield to clarify the non-movant's burden to raise a fact question as to each of the elements of fraudulent concealment. American Petrofina, Inc. v. Allen, 887 S.W.2d at 830. Furthermore, requiring the non-movant to raise a fact issue as the existence of the wrong is consistent with the notion that there can be no actual knowledge of a wrong if there is no wrong. See Srite v. Owens-Illinois, Inc., 870 S.W.2d 556, 564 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1993), rev'd on other grounds, Owens-Illinois, Inc. v. Estate of Burt, 897 S.W.2d 765 (Tex. 1995). Requiring the non-movant to raise a question of fact as to the existence of the underlying tort or wrong, however, appears inconsistent with the traditional definitions and meanings of the terms "affirmative defense" and "avoidance."  \n Limitations is an affirmative defense of avoidance. TEX. R. CIV.  [*14]  P. 94. When an affirmative defense is pled, the complaint is assumed to be true, i.e. the existence of a prima facie case is accepted for purposes of analyzing the limitations issue. BLACK'S LAW DICTIONARY 55 (5th ed. 1979); see also Cooper v. Scott Irrigation Constr., Inc., 838 S.W.2d 743, 747 (Tex. App.--El Paso 1992, no writ)(Koehler, J., dissenting) (affirmative defense accepts existence of prima facie case); Bracton Corp. v. Evans Constr. Co., 784 S.W.2d 708, 710 (Tex. App.--Houston [14th Dist.] 1990, no writ)(affirmative defense denies plaintiff's right to judgment even if plaintiff establishes every allegation); W.R. Grace Co. v. Scotch Corp., 753 S.W.2d 743, 746 (Tex. App.--Austin 1988, writ denied)(limitations plea does not rebut factual propositions). Similarly, a plea in avoidance admits the facts alleged in the pleading for purposes of considering the plea. BLACK'S LAW DICTIONARY 125 (5th ed. 1979). Applying these definitions, when a movant asserts limitations as a bar to a non-movant's claims, the movant is accepting the truth or fact of the underlying tort or wrong for purposes of analyzing the limitations issue. Requiring the non-movant to raise [*15]  a question of fact as to the existence of the underlying tort or wrong is therefore inconsistent with these traditional definitions because the existence of the wrong has been admitted or is assumed in addressing the limitations issue. \n On the other hand, the Texas Supreme Court has repeatedly asserted that a mere pleading or response to a summary judgment motion does not satisfy the burden of coming forward with sufficient evidence to prevent summary judgment. See American Petrofina, Inc. v. Allen, 887 S.W.2d at 830. Allowing the non-movant to avoid this burden by relying on an assumption made for purposes of the movant's initial assertion of the limitations defense may be unfair to the movant. See id. \n When the appellate courts have considered the fraudulent concealment defense in prior decisions, it is unclear whether the non-movant has been subjected to this higher burden of raising a fact issue as to the existence of the underlying tort. For example, in Sanchez v. Memorial Medical Center Hospital, the appellants alleged negligent treatment by failing to properly monitor the decedent for apnea and by failing to timely intubate him following respiratory and cardiac arrest.  [*16]  769 S.W.2d 656, 657 (Tex. App.--Corpus Christi 1989, no writ). Appellants contended that appellees allowed 13 minutes to elapse before intubation and only checked decedent hourly for his apnea. Id. The appellate court asserted that appellants had to offer proof of these contentions and show appellees had knowledge of these facts. Id. The appellate court did not require that the appellants raise a fact issue showing that the lapse of 13 minutes before the intubation and the hourly monitoring were below the standard of care. \n We do not find it necessary to reach the ultimate issue as to whether a non-movant asserting fraudulent concealment must raise a question of fact as to the existence of the underlying tort in this case. We simply note that if such a burden is imposed, it has been met.  \n a. Fraudulent Concealment - Surgical Procedure \n It is clear from the chronology of the events in the instant case that appellant filed this action more than two years from the date of the operation. With respect to the operation itself, appellant alleges Dr. Earle was negligent in: (1) implanting a device not approved by the FDA for use in the lower spine; and (2) wrapping the [*17]  stimulator leads around the hardware screws. \n There is no summary judgment evidence that Dr. Earle knew of the absence of FDA approval prior to December of 1993 when the 20/20 program aired. Therefore, Dr. Earle did not have actual knowledge of any potentially wrongful act in using the device in the lower spine and cannot be held to have fraudulently concealed this act from appellant. See Arredondo, 904 S.W.2d at 758 (defendant must have actual knowledge of wrong).  \n The second claim arising from the surgical procedure itself is based on the technique Dr. Earle chose in performing the surgery, i.e. wrapping the stimulator leads around the hardware screws. Dr. Earle admittedly did not disclose the technique nor the precaution made by the manufacturer's representative against the use of such technique to the appellant. The only competent summary judgment evidence shows that appellant did not discover that Dr. Earle intentionally used this technique despite the precaution until his deposition was taken in April of 1995, after appellant filed his cause of action. We must assess whether Dr. Earle's concealment of his use of this technique was fraudulent. \n There is no question that [*18]  Dr. Earle had actual knowledge of the technique he used in performing the procedure. As previously noted, however, there is some authority for the proposition that appellant had the burden of coming forward with proof raising a question of fact as to whether the use of this technique was below the standard of care. Given the facts in the instant case, we reach the same result whether the non-movant is subjected to this additional burden or not. We conclude the statements made by the manufacturer's representative as testified to by Dr. Earle in his deposition coupled with the absence of any medical studies to discount these warnings or precautions raises a question of fact as to whether the use of this technique was below the standard of care or was "wrong." 3   \n  [*19]    \n Texas courts recognize that a physician has a duty to disclose a negligent act or the fact that an injury as occurred.  Borderlon v. Peck, 661 S.W.2d at 908; see also Thames v. Dennison, 821 S.W.2d 380, 384 (Tex. App.--Austin 1991, writ denied). A failure to make a disclosure in violation of this duty demonstrates a fixed purpose to conceal. See DiGrazia v. Old, 900 S.W.2d at 503. Dr. Earle's failure to disclose the use of the technique in contravention of the prior precaution, therefore, raises a fact issue as to whether Dr. Earle's concealment of the technique was purposeful.  \n We therefore conclude the summary judgment in favor of Dr. Earle with respect to the claims relating to the use of the wrapping technique was improperly granted because fact issues were raised as to whether Dr. Earle's fraudulent concealment tolled the statute of limitations until his deposition was taken after the filing of the lawsuit. \n  \n  b. Fraudulent Concealment - Follow-Up Care \n  \n As previously noted, the limitations period for claims based on follow-up care runs from the date of final treatment.  Stover v. Gormley, 883 S.W.2d at 281-82. Appellant's last visit with Dr. Earle [*20]  was on February 24, 1994. Therefore, appellant filed the instant suit before the limitations period had run with respect to appellant's follow-up care claims. \n 2. Limitations and Open Courts Doctrine \n  \n A plaintiff may also challenge the assertion of a limitations defense to a health care claim by questioning the constitutionality of the limitations period under the open courts doctrine. 4  The open courts provision of the constitution precludes the limitations period from cutting off a cause of action before the action is known to exist or before suit can be brought.  Neagle v. Nelson, 685 S.W.2d 11, 12 (Tex. 1985); Waters, 844 S.W.2d at 257. Stated differently, the open courts provision is violated if the statute cuts off an injured party's right to sue before the party has a reasonable opportunity to discover the wrong and bring suit.  Neagle, 685 S.W.2d at 12; Nelson v. Krusen, 678 S.W.2d 918, 922 (Tex. 1984); Stotter v. Wingo, 794 S.W.2d 50, 52 (Tex. App.--San Antonio 1990, no writ). Since we are reversing the summary judgment on limitations with respect to the wrapping technique based on the potential fraudulent concealment defense, we do not [*21]  address the open courts doctrine as it may apply to that allegation. \n With respect to the implantation of the plates without FDA approval, appellant did not discover that FDA approval was absent until March of 1994, almost one year after the two year limitations period had run. In fact, Dr. Earle did not discover the absence of FDA approval until December of 1993, which was eight months after the limitations period had run. Cutting off appellant's cause of action prior to the date appellant reasonably could have discovered FDA approval was absent would be a violation of the open courts provision. See Neagle, 685 S.W.2d at 12; Nelson v. Kruson, 678 S.W.2d [*22]  at 922.  \n Having found the limitations period violated the open courts provision, the issue becomes whether appellant timely filed his suit after discovering the absence of FDA approval. See LaGesse v. PrimaCare, Inc., 899 S.W.2d 43, 47 (Tex. App.--Eastland 1995, writ denied). In LaGesse, the plaintiff argued a one year delay between the discovery of the injury and the filing of the lawsuit was reasonable based on the need to obtain an expert opinion as to whether the defendants violated the accepted standard of care. Id. at 45-46. The court held the one year delay to be unreasonable as a matter of law.  Id. at 47. \n In the instant case, nine months elapsed from the date appellant discovered FDA approval was absent to the date the lawsuit was filed. Whether this is reasonable is ordinarily a question of fact, "only to be determined against a claimant as a matter of law, when the evidence, construed most favorably for the claimant, admitted no other conclusion." See Neagle, 685 S.W.2d at 14 (Kilgarlin, J., concurring). Appellant contends that part of the delay was caused by waiting to obtain copies of the 20/20 program transcript and documents from the FDA. We [*23]  conclude the "reasonableness" of the delay was a question of fact precluding summary judgment as to the negligence claim based on the use of the hardware on the lower spine in the absence of FDA approval. \n  \n 3. Post-Operative Negligence Claims \n Dr. Earle also moved for summary judgment as to the follow-up care claims on the basis that he had met the applicable standard of medical care and any negligence during this period did not proximately cause injury to appellant. Dr. Earle asserted that the failure of the fusion and the loosening of the hardware were known complications of the surgical procedure and were not the result of any negligence during appellant's follow-up care. \n The standard for reviewing a motion for summary judgment has been clearly established. The movant for summary judgment is first required to disprove at least one of the essential elements of each of the plaintiff's causes of action in order to prevail on summary judgment. Lear Siegler, Inc. v. Perez, 819 S.W.2d 470, 471 (Tex. 1991). This initial burden requires the movant to show that no genuine issue of material fact exists and that the movant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.   [*24]  Nixon v. Mr. Property  Management Co., 690 S.W.2d 546, 548-49 (Tex. 1985). In determining whether a material fact issue exists to preclude summary judgment, evidence favoring the non-movant is taken as true, and all reasonable inferences are indulged in favor of the non-movant. Id. Any doubt is resolved in favor of the non-movant. Id. \n Texas law recognizes summary judgment to be a harsh remedy requiring strict construction.  Garcia v. John Hancock Variable Life Ins. Co., 859 S.W.2d 427, 435 (Tex. App.--San Antonio 1993, writ denied). The reason for applying such a strict standard is because a summary proceeding is "not a conventional trial, but an exception to the usual and traditional formal procedure whereby witnesses are heard in open court and documentary proof is offered and received into evidence." Id. A summary judgment is not intended to permit a trial by deposition or affidavit and should not be resolved by weighing the relative strength of the conflicting facts and inferences. Id. \n Dr. Earle argued that the failed fusion and loosening of the hardware were not the result of any negligent act on his part. However, this assertion ignores the nature of [*25]  the claims made by appellant with respect to Dr. Earle's negligence during the follow-up period. Appellant claimed that Dr. Earle was negligent in concealing or failing to disclose the fact of the failed fusion and the fact of the loosening to appellant, not that any negligent act by Dr. Earle during the surgical procedure caused such failure and loosening. See Borderlon, 661 S.W.2d at 908 (recognizing duty to disclose fact that injury has occurred); see also Thames, 821 S.W.2d at 384. Appellant further asserted that Dr. Earle was negligent in failing to properly treat appellant for the unfused spine and loosened hardware. Appellant's assertion is founded on the premise that if Dr. Earle had made the requisite disclosures, appellant could have been properly treated by undergoing another surgical procedure to refuse his spine much earlier than the date such procedure was actually performed by Dr. Hall, and thereby spared the pain suffered from the period of months between the date Dr. Earle discovered the failed fusion and loosening to the date appellant underwent the subsequent surgery. \n  \n Dr. Earle admits he had a duty to disclose the failed fusion and loosening to appellant.  [*26]  See Borderlon, 661 S.W.2d at 908 (recognizing duty to disclose fact that injury has occurred); see also Thames, 821 S.W.2d at 384. Dr. Earle asserts such disclosure was made in May of 1993. Dr. Earle's medical report dated December of 1993 states the x-ray revealed no loosening and a stable operative site. Appellant asserts that the disclosure was not made. A summary judgment is not intended to resolve the relative strength of these conflicting facts or the inferences which could be drawn therefrom. Therefore, summary judgment as to Dr. Earle's negligence in the follow-up care was improper. We find the evidence was sufficient to raise a question of fact as to whether Dr. Earle made the requisite disclosure, i.e. the possible loosening of the hardware, which "caused" or prevented appellant from seeking proper treatment, i.e. the additional surgery, for several months. \n  \n CONCLUSION \n The trial court's summary judgment on limitations grounds as to appellant's claim regarding the use of the Steffee plates in the absence of FDA approval was improper because the limitations period violated the open courts doctrine and a fact issue exists as to whether appellant timely filed [*27]  his suit after discovering the absence of FDA approval. The trial court's summary judgment as to appellant's claim arising from the use of the wrapping technique was improper because fact issues were raised with respect to whether Dr. Earle fraudulently concealed the claim. Summary judgment was improper as to appellant's follow-up care claims because a genuine issue of material fact exists with respect thereto. The judgment of the trial court is reversed, and the cause is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. \n TOM RICKHOFF, \n JUSTICE  \n Dissent by: PHIL HARDBERGER \n Dissent \n  \n  \n DISSENTING OPINION \n I respectfully dissent from the majority opinion reversing this summary judgment ordered by a careful trial court. I would affirm the granting of the summary judgment in favor of Dr. Earle on two grounds: 1) the statute of limitations, and 2) a failure of the plaintiff to controvert the affidavit of Dr. Earle. \n I agree with the majority's statements recognizing that summary judgment is a harsh remedy requiring strict construction before it is granted. I also agree that a summary judgment is "an exception to the usual and traditional formal procedure whereby [*28]  witnesses are heard in open court" and a decision is made by the factfinder with due regard to the quality of the testimony and the credibility of the witnesses. I am in accord with the general language of the majority that summary judgment evidence must be looked at closely and that it is not the purpose of a summary judgment to weigh the relative strength of the conflicting facts and inferences. See Garcia v. John Hancock Bearable Life Insurance Company, 859 S.W.2d 427, 435 (Tex. App.--San Antonio 1993, writ denied). This is not to say, however, that a summary judgment should never be granted. In my opinion, this is such a case. \n Statute of Limitations and Wrongful Acts \n Robert Hattaway had a back operation, performed by Dr. Earle, on April 4, 1991 to attempt to correct an earlier failed previous back surgery. Three years and ten months later he filed this medical malpractice lawsuit because this second back surgery had also failed. In this almost four year period Hattaway was virtually constantly in pain from his back. As the principal purpose of a back operation is to minimize the pain with the back, Hattaway could not reasonably have felt that the operation was a success.  [*29]  The statute of limitations in a medical malpractice case is two years. This two year limitation applies unless it is impossible to discover the wrongful act that has been committed on the patient, or the doctor fraudulently conceals his wrongful act. Inherent in either of these exceptions is that a wrongful act occurred and that the wrongful act was the proximate cause of the patient's injuries. Before these exceptions are considered at least a prima facie case of negligence must be shown by the plaintiffs' affidavits and exhibits opposing the summary judgment. The plaintiff's controverting affidavit and exhibits in this case are devoid of any expert testimony raising a fact issue that Dr. Earle committed negligence, or, if he did, that it was the proximate cause of the plaintiff's injury. Dr. Earle's affidavit stated that he was familiar with the standard of care, stated that it was his opinion that his treatment was in accordance with the appropriate standard of care; and stated he did what a reasonable prudent physician would have done under the same or similar circumstances. He denied that his treatment was negligence and said that nothing that he did in reasonable medical [*30]  probability could have, or did, cause damage to the plaintiff. His affidavit is clear, positive and direct, otherwise credible and free from contradiction and inconsistencies. It was readily controvertible if untrue. Thus, Dr. Earle's affidavit was sufficient to negate the elements of breach of the applicable standards of care and causal connection between the breach of care and the harm suffered unless properly controverted by the plaintiff to create a material fact issue.  \n The facts of the instant case place it in the same category with Garza v. Levin, 769 S.W.2d 644 (Tex. App.--Corpus Christi 1989, writ denied).  \n He denied that his diagnosis was negligent and stated that in his opinion, based on reasonable medical probability, nothing he did caused damage to Garza. This affidavit is clear, positive and direct, otherwise credible and free from contradictions and inconsistencies. It was readily controvertible if untrue. Thus, Dr. Levine's affidavit was sufficient to negate the elements of breach of the applicable standard of care and causal connection between the breach of care and the harm suffered. \n  Id. at 646. \n In the instant case, we note that the controverting [*31]  affidavit proof consisted principally of the plaintiff's own affidavit and his opinions about the cause of his problems, and his feeling that Dr. Earle's negligence was the source of those problems. The plaintiff though is a lay witness and his opinions and conclusions do not controvert that of Dr. Earle. Only a medical doctor is able to controvert those opinions. The plaintiff here and in and Garza attempted to do the same thing: create a fact issue by the use of lay opinion that contradicts expert opinion. This mismatch is not successful.  \n First, we note that Garza's personal affidavit is not controverting proof because medical conclusions of a lay witness are not competent evidence for the purpose of controverting expert opinion evidence. \n  Id. at 646.  \n I would hold that the failure of the plaintiff to present controverting expert medical testimony to Dr. Earle's affidavit is fatal.  \n It is definitely settled with us that a patient has no cause of action against his doctor for malpractice, either in diagnosis or recognized treatment, unless he proves by a doctor of the same school of practice of the defendant: (1) that the diagnosis or treatment complained [*32]  of was such as to constitute negligence and (2) that it was a proximate cause of the patient's injuries. \n  Bowles v. Bourdon, 148 Tex. 1, 219 S.W.2d 779, 782 (Tex. 1949). Cited with approval in Hart v. Van Zandt, 399 S.W.2d 791, 797 (Tex. 1965).  \n Without any medical experts to establish negligence and causation of injury from the negligence, the plaintiff had to rely on the following: (1) inferences from the medical records themselves; (2) a 20/20 television expose on the surgical equipment placed in the patient's back to stabilize it; (3) continued pain in his back after the second operation; and (4) the fact that the hardware in his back was ultimately ineffective in stabilizing the back and had to be removed in a third back operation. While these items are susceptible of inferences of negligence, they do not negate the doctor's affidavit of no negligence and no proximate cause of the injury. Without the cement of expert testimony to put the building blocks of a legal cause of action together, the above items simply remain loose pieces of evidence, building nothing. \n Surely if a physician is going to be required to stand trial on such technical issues as his medical [*33]  techniques in a complicated re-surgery of the back, subsequent care and the efficacy of the medical hardware that was used in the surgery, someone with medical authority needs to say that the physician was wrong, why he was wrong and the injury that resulted from the wrongful act. This is in accord with the Bowles and Van Zandt requirements earlier referred to. Not only is the expert opinion about negligence and proximate cause absent in this case, but there is no competent explanation of why the long delay to seek legal redress.  \n Dr. Earle's motion for summary judgment asserts that the plaintiff's cause of action is barred by limitations under § 10.01 art. 4590i TEX. REV. CIV. STAT. because suit was not filed within two years of the April 1991 surgery. There is no dispute that the suit was filed late by almost two years. The burden then shifts to the plaintiff, Hattaway, to show by competent evidence there was a legal excuse for the long delay in filing suit. Hattaway's answer is Dr. Earle "intentionally concealed his negligent conduct throughout the entire course of his treatment after the surgery (From April 4, 1991 until March 1994)." If Dr. Earle did commit negligence [*34]  and knowingly concealed it from Hattaway, I would agree the two year statute wouldn't apply. The elements that Hattaway needs to establish, however, to entitle him to the exceptions of meeting the regular statute of limitations are: \n  \n (1) Dr. Earle was guilty of negligent conduct. \n  \n  \n (2) This negligent conduct was the proximate cause of Hattaway' injuries. (3) Dr. Earle intentionally concealed his negligence during the entire course of his treatment. \n See e.g., Arredondo v. Hilliard, 904 S.W.2d 754, 760 (Tex. App.--San Antonio 1995) rev'd on other grounds, 922 S.W.2d 120, 39 Tex. Sup. J. 286 (1996) (specifically approving lower court's fraudulent concealment discussions); Thames v. Dennison, 821 S.W.2d 380, 384 (Tex. App.--Austin 1991, writ denied).  \n While Hattaway says all of the above in his affidavit, he has no medical proof of it. Therefore he fails all along the way. He doesn't prove by competent medical testimony that there was negligence in either the operation or the follow-up back care. Not being able to show negligence, it naturally follows that he cannot show that the negligence was the proximate cause of his injuries. Failing [*35]  to show negligence or that the negligence was the proximate cause of his injuries, he cannot prove that Dr. Earle was fraudulently concealing his negligence. Not having any competent expert testimony that Dr. Earle committed negligence, Hattaway attempts to bootstrap his way into negligence by using Dr. Earle's own deposition testimony to make him the expert witness that is so obviously lacking in his case. While this can sometimes be done successfully, especially if the doctor admits to negligence, or some other element of the cause of action, this does not work in the instant case. \n Specifically, Hattaway says that it was negligence for Dr. Earle to allow the leads of a bone growth stimulator to come in contact with the metal plate that was inserted in the back. Dr. Earle had wrapped the stimulator leads around the metal bone screws during the plaintiff's operation. Given sufficient medical expert testimony, this could be the basis for a fact issue as to whether there was negligence. But there is no expert testimony as to negligence, much less proximate cause.  \n It should be observed that the finding of how Dr. Earle wrapped the leads of the bone stimulator, which was described during [*36]  Dr. Earle's deposition testimony in this case, could have had nothing to do with the late filing of the lawsuit. This fact wasn't even discovered until deep into the discovery process.  \n Dr. Earle testified that he once heard a doctor of the manufacturer say that this was not the proper way to attach the leads. Dr. Earle, based on his own experience, felt that it was. We do not know, however, and never will know if the manufacturer's doctor would have thought Dr. Earle's way was negligence. There is a critical difference in a doctor's opinion about the preferred and nonpreferred way to do a procedure, and whether the nonpreferred way could be considered negligence. We can only gather from Dr. Earle's testimony that the manufacturer's doctor would not have attached the leads in the fashion that Dr. Earle did. Was it negligence? We do not know. We do not even know what was the customary and usual practice of physicians in attaching the leads. Hattaway, in his brief, describes the attaching of the bone stimulator leads to the bone screws of the stabilizing plates as "experimental." But we do not know this. No one, other than a lay plaintiff, has said so. Even more obvious should be the [*37]  gap in the testimony as to whether what Dr. Earle did, namely using a nonrecommended attachment of the bone stimulator, was the proximate cause of Hattaway's injuries. There isn't even an inference to help us answer the question of proximate cause.  \n In a medical negligence action, proximate cause is an element which must be proven by expert testimony. Ortiz v. Santa Rosa Medical Center, 702 S.W.2d 701, 705 (Tex. Civ. App.--San Antonio 1985, writ ref'd n.r.e.); Stanton v. Westbrook, 598 S.W.2d 331, 333 (Tex. Civ. App.--Houston [14th Dist.] 1980), writ ref'd n.r.e.). Mere conclusions of a lay witness are not competent evidence and cannot be considered for the purpose of controverting expert opinion evidence . . . The Hospital met its burden of negating the essential elements of each of appellant's causes of action. Appellant failed to meet his burden of producing controverting evidence to raise a fact issue on those negated elements. Therefore, the Hospital was entitled to summary judgment as a matter of law.  \n  Nicholson v. Memorial Hospital System, 722 S.W.2d 746 (1986). \n Similar language is found in Pinckley v. Gallegos, 740 S.W.2d 529 (Tex. App.--San [*38]  Antonio 1987, writ denied).  \n Once the movant for summary judgment has negated one of these essential elements of the cause of action, the burden is on the appellant-nonmovant to produce controverting evidence raising an issue of fact as to the elements negated.  \n  Id. at 531. The above case held that the physician's affidavit, which negated the elements of the breach of duty and proximate cause in a medical malpractice action, was readily controvertible for summary judgment purposes, but was not controverted by competent expert testimony. Thus, the summary judgment was properly granted. \n Plaintiff's controverting material shows that 20/20 was critical of the steffee plates that were used by Dr. Earle in an attempt to stabilize the back, but we have no testimony before this court that it was negligence to use them, or that they are the proximate cause of plaintiff's problems today, in whole or part. We also know that the manufacturer's representative of the bone stimulator felt that there should not be direct contact between the leads of the bone stimulator and the plate, but there is no evidence as to whether it would be negligence, or if it is negligence, that it [*39]  is the proximate cause of the plaintiff's injuries.  \n Plaintiff complains that he was not told of the operative techniques of Dr. Earle in attaching the leads of the bone stimulator to the steffee plate until he heard it in Dr. Earle's deposition, but this has no great significance if we do not know whether it is negligent or not to do it, or whether the plaintiff's injuries are the proximate cause of the negligence, if any there is.  \n There is a dispute as to when the plaintiff first was told of the possibility of removing the hardware. The plaintiff says he did not know this until the spring of 1994. Dr. Earle testified that he discussed the hardware removal in the spring of 1993. In support of Dr. Earle's version is that there is frequent mention in the medical records of the spring and summer of 1993 of the possibility of hardware removal. This is a factual contradiction, but it is one that does not create a fact question that has to be decided by a jury because there is no expert testimony to link the plaintiff's knowledge that the hardware might have to be removed, whether learned in 1994 or 1993, that would establish any essential element of this cause of action: namely whether [*40]  there was negligence and proximate cause. \n  \n Finally I respectfully take issue with a statement in the majority opinion that if the statute of limitations is pled, then all of the plaintiff's allegations must be assumed to be true. I don't believe this is the law. The majority's lead case to back up this proposition is Cooper v. Scott Irrigation Constr., 838 S.W.2d 743, 747 (Tex. App.--El Paso 1992, no writ) (Koehler, J., dissenting). This case is not a statute of limitations case, and not a medical malpractice case. It is a suit on a sworn account for the purchase of agricultural irrigation equipment when the bill was not paid. The defendant claimed breach of express and implied warranties, DTPA violations and negligence. The defendant, however, did not file a sworn denial to the suit based on a sworn account as required by TEX. R. CIV. P. 185. Therefore, the court said that "Where a defendant does not file a sworn denial to a suit based on a sworn account as provided for in TEX. R. CIV. P. 185, the account is taken as true and a prima facie case is established." Id. at 747. The case goes on to say that there are many affirmative defenses that can be raised including payment,  [*41]  limitations and illegality among others.  Id. at 749. The case then points out that none of these defenses challenge the correctness of the account. "None of these defenses challenge the correctness of the account, they admit the account but say there can be no collection for the reason stated in the affirmative defense." Id. at 747.  \n Sworn account requirements have no relevance to the case before this court. Neither do either of the other commercial cases cited in the majority. Dr. Earle is raising two affirmative defenses. They are not contradictory of each other in any way. He raises the statute of limitations. He also says that he met all applicable standards of care and nothing he did was negligent or the proximate cause of plaintiff's injuries. Cooper does not say, nor even imply, that because the statute of limitations is raised, it is assumed that all of plaintiffs allegations are true. This would be illogical to the extreme, and put the defendant to a horrible and unfair choice.  \n In the end the plaintiff has only shown his second back surgery failed, as did his first. On the summary judgment evidence we do not know why because there is no competent evidence [*42]  to tell us, or raise a fact issue to controvert the defendant's affidavits and exhibits. Without a showing of negligence and proximate cause, no exceptions to the statute of limitations can be shown. \n I would affirm the summary judgment. \n PHIL HARDBERGER \n JUSTICE  \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 