Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n Appellant brother sought reversal of the order of 234th District Court, Harris County (Texas), which granted summary judgment to defendants, a hotel, a hotel manager, a security firm and a security officer, in a negligence action filed after the decedent killed himself in defendant hotel's lobby with defendant security officer's gun. \n Overview \n Appellant, the brother of a mentally-ill decedent, sued defendant hotel, defendant hotel manager, defendant security firm, and defendant security officer after decedent killed himself with defendant security officer's gun in defendant hotel's lobby while appellant was using the telephone nearby. The trial court granted defendants' summary judgment motion. On appeal, the trial court's judgment was affirmed. The court held that none of the defendants owed appellant's brother a particularly high duty of care, and that his suicide was an independent act for which none of the defendants were liable. Further, the court reasoned, appellant could not recover as a bystander because defendants did not owe him a duty of care to prevent his brother's suicide. Accordingly, the trial court's order granting defendants' summary judgment motion was affirmed. \n Outcome \n The trial court's order granting summary judgment to defendants, a hotel, a hotel manager, a security firm and a security officer, was affirmed. The court held that defendants owed appellant brother no duty of care to prevent decedent's suicide. \n Judges: Margaret Garner Mirabal, Justice. Panel consists of Justices Mirabal, Hedges, and Andell.   \n Opinion by: MARGARET GARNER MIRABAL \n Opinion \n  \n  \n OPINION \n This is an appeal from the granting of defendants' motions for summary judgment in a negligence and premises liability case. We affirm. \n The following facts are uncontroverted. On August 7, 1993, around 2:00 p.m., the decedent, Lee Jones, entered the Howard Johnson Hotel located in Sharpstown. He had just been released from a mental facility. The decedent obtained about $ 5.00 worth of quarters from the desk clerk and began making phone calls. During the afternoon and evening, he called the number of Carver Jones (Jones), his brother, several times. After receiving a phone call from the decedent, Jones spoke to a hospital, which agreed to admit the decedent into the psychiatric unit. \n Around 9:30 p.m., the decedent began a conversation with Security Officer Pringle, asking him for a cigarette. 1  The [*2]  decedent then went to the restroom. Upon his return, he asked Pringle for another cigarette. At this point, Jones arrived at the hotel, and a heated argument began between the brothers. Jones left the area to use the telephone. While he was gone, the decedent asked Pringle if he could handle his gun. 2  Pringle said no, then turned to leave. The decedent succeeded in removing the gun from Pringle's holster. At this point, Jones returned from using the phone. He ran back to the telephone to call 911, and then he heard a gun shot. He immediately ran back to the lobby and saw blood pouring from his brother's mouth. \n  [*3]  Suing as a bystander, Jones filed claims against Carl Maynard, individually and d/b/a Armadillo Security Services of Texas a/k/a Armadillo Security, and Edward Pringle (Security defendants) for: (1) negligence in giving a weapon to the decedent, or, alternatively, allowing the decedent to acquire the weapon; (2) negligent hiring of an improperly trained security guard who was not competent to carry a weapon; and (3) gross negligence.  \n Jones also sued Chung-Cheng Hung, individually and d/b/a Howard Johnson Lodge Sharpstown, 1st Southwest Group Partnership, Ltd., individually and d/b/a Howard Johnson Lodge Sharpstown, Chung-Cheng Hung, in his capacity as the general partner for 1st Southwest Group Partnership, Ltd., and U.S. Inn (Hotel defendants) for: (1) negligence in guarding against and failing to warn plaintiff regarding an unreasonably dangerous condition; 3  (2) negligent hiring of the Security defendants; and (3) gross negligence. \n  [*4]  The Security defendants moved for summary judgment on the following grounds: \n (1) they had no duty to Jones as a bystander because the Security defendants owed no duty to prevent the decedent's suicide; and \n (2) the unilateral act of suicide represented the sole proximate cause of Jones' alleged damages. \n In response to the Security defendants' motion for summary judgment, Jones asserted the following arguments: \n (1) a fact issue existed as to how the decedent obtained possession of the revolver; \n (2) a fact issue existed regarding the use of the snap on Pringle's holster; and \n (3) defendants had a duty to use reasonable care, with respect to Jones, when knowledge of the probability of the injury increased. 4  \n  [*5]  The Hotel defendants moved for summary judgment on the following grounds: \n (1) they had no duty to prevent the decedent's suicide; \n (2) there was no legal basis for a premises liability cause of action on these facts; \n (3) the suicide of the decedent was a superseding, intervening and only cause of the event made the basis of this suit; \n (4) the Hotel defendants could not be held liable for the negligent acts of an independent contractor; \n (5) Jones could not recover as a bystander on these facts. \n In response to the Hotel defendants' motion for summary judgment Jones asserted: \n (1) a fact issue existed as to whether Jones was a licensee or an invitee; \n (2) a fact issue existed as to whether Security Guard Pringle was an independent contractor; \n (3) as a premises owner, the Hotel defendants owed Jones a duty of ordinary care to protect him from dangerous conditions on the premises of which defendants had notice; and \n (4) the Hotel defendants' negligence occurred before the suicide happened, through defendants' action of providing the weapon used for the suicide and a place to use the weapon. \n In their reply to Jones' response, the Hotel defendants [*6]  argued that Jones' evidence did not raise a fact issue as to how and why the decedent committed suicide or how and why Jones came to perceive his brother's suicide. The Hotel defendants emphasized that they had no duty to prevent the suicide, breached no duty, and there was no foreseeability to create proximate cause. They asserted that no material issue of fact existed as to the status of Jones or the decedent as trespassers, licensees, or invitees, because the Hotel defendants did not owe Jones a duty to prevent the suicide of his brother, regardless of his legal status. \n The trial court granted both the Hotel defendants' and the Security defendants' motions for summary judgment without specifying the grounds upon which they were granted. \n In five points of error, Jones asserts the trial court erred in granting summary judgment for the defendants because of the existence of material fact issues. \n Summary judgment is proper only when a movant establishes there is no genuine issue of material fact and it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  Randall's Food Mkts., Inc. v. Johnson, 891 S.W.2d 640, 644 (Tex. 1995); Wright v. Christian & Smith, 950 S.W.2d 411, 412 (Tex. App.--Houston [*7]  [1st Dist.] 1997, no writ). In reviewing the granting of a summary judgment, this Court will take all evidence favorable to the nonmovant as true--indulging every reasonable inference and resolving any doubts in her favor.  Johnson, 891 S.W.2d at 644; Wright, 950 S.W.2d at 412.  \n When a summary judgment does not state the specific grounds upon which it was granted, a party appealing from such order must show that each of the independent arguments alleged in the motion is insufficient to support the order.  Carr v. Brasher, 776 S.W.2d 567, 569 (Tex. 1989); Primeaux v. Conoco, Inc., 961 S.W.2d 401, 403 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1997, no writ); Richardson v. Johnson & Higgins of Texas, Inc., 905 S.W.2d 9, 11 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1995, writ denied). \n The general rule in Texas is that suicide is an intervening cause which breaks the chain of causation.  Exxon Corp. v. Brecheen, 526 S.W.2d 519, 523 (Tex. 1975) (explaining the general rule of no civil liability for wrongful act which precedes suicide); Shell Oil Co. v. Humphrey, 880 S.W.2d 170, 174 (Tex. App.--Houston [14th Dist.] 1994, writ denied). However, the law has long recognized exceptions [*8]  to the rule if (1) the negligence causes mental illness which results in suicide, or (2) the alleged liability is based upon a "specific duty of care," such as the duty owed by a hospital. C.T. Drechsler, Annotation, Civil Liability for Death by Suicide, 11 A.L.R.2d 751, 775 (1950); see also Wilson v. Brister, 982 S.W.2d 42 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1998, pet. denied) (duty of psychiatrist to a patient). \n In Texas, suicide is an affirmative defense to a civil action for personal injury or death, provided that no defendant has failed to comply with "an applicable legal standard." TEX. CIV. PRAC. & REM. CODE ANN.  § 93.001(a)(2) (Vernon 1997). This statute has been held to be consistent with the general rule of no liability.  Diggles v. Horwitz, 765 S.W.2d 839, 841 (Tex. App.--Beaumont 1989, writ denied) ("This is consistent with our supreme court's holding . . . that suicide constitutes an intervening force . . . ."). In Diggles, the appellate court reversed an order of summary judgment in favor of a pawnshop owner who had sold a gun to a man who later committed suicide. Relying on section 93.001, the court held that there were issues of fact which precluded [*9]  summary judgment. Diggles, 765 S.W.2d at 841 ("Appellant argues there are fact issues relating to both ordinary negligence and strict liability. We agree as to ordinary negligence."). \n In the case at hand, the defendants contend that there is no general duty to prevent suicide. A negligence claim consists of three elements: (1) a legal duty owed by one to another; (2) breach of that duty; and (3) damages proximately caused by the breach.  Greater Houston Transp. Co. v. Phillips, 801 S.W.2d 523, 525 (Tex. 1990). Duty is the threshold inquiry, the existence of which is a question of law for the court to decide from the facts surrounding the occurrence in question. Id. In Phillips, the court stated the criteria for this determination:  \n In determining whether the defendant was under a duty, the court will consider several interrelated factors, including the risk, foreseeability, and likelihood of injury weighed against the social utility of the actor's conduct, the magnitude of the burden of guarding against the injury, and the consequences of placing the burden on the defendant. \n  \n Id. Furthermore, the "foremost and dominant consideration" among these factors is [*10]  the foreseeability of the risk.  El Chico Corp. v. Poole, 732 S.W.2d 306, 311 (Tex. 1987). \n Although generally deemed an intervening act, whether a suicide was foreseeable can be a fact issue, precluding summary judgment.  Kassen v. Hatley, 887 S.W.2d 4, 13 (Tex. 1994) (holding that fact issue existed as to whether physician was negligent in refusing to admit psychiatric patient); Wilson, 982 S.W.2d at 45 (fact issue existed regarding foreseeability of patient's suicide and psychiatrist's efforts to prevent it). However, this standard does not usually apply outside the setting of a special relationship. See Evans v. City of Marlin, 986 F.2d 104, 107 (5th Cir. 1993) (stating that police are not required to detect suicidal tendencies). The court in Evans reasoned, "such an exacting standard 'requires the skills of an experienced medical professional with psychiatric training . . . .'" Id. (quoting Burns v. City of Galveston, 905 F.2d 100 (5th Cir. 1990)). \n There is generally no duty to control the conduct of third persons.  Otis Eng'g Corp. v. Clark, 668 S.W.2d 307, 309 (Tex. 1983) (citing RESTATEMENT (SECOND) OF TORTS § 315 (1965)). In the El Chico  [*11]  case, the Texas Supreme Court explored the application of duty to third parties. Two wrongful death and survival cases were consolidated to determine whether a third party injured by an intoxicated driver could recover damages from the alcoholic beverage licensee who allegedly sold liquor to intoxicated drivers, thus violating the Texas Alcohol and Beverage Code. In both cases, the summary judgment and dismissal by the respective trial courts were reversed by the intermediate appellate courts, and those decisions were affirmed by the Texas Supreme Court.  El Chico, 732 S.W.2d at 315. \n In its discussion of whether a duty existed, the Supreme Court, citing Otis Engineering, focused on the foreseeability of the risk as the dominant consideration: \n The duty here is merely the application of the general duty to exercise reasonable care to avoid foreseeable injury to others . . . . The duty is the same whether the foreseeable injury involves the drunkard himself or a third party who may be placed in peril because of the drunkard's condition. Moreover, the common law recognizes the duty to take affirmative action to control or avoid increasing the danger from another's conduct which [*12]  the actor has at least partially created. \n  \n  732 S.W.2d at 311-12. \n These cases are distinguishable because, as the El Chico court acknowledged, the standard of conduct in these cases was determined by statute. The sale of liquor to an intoxicated person constituted a penal code violation. Id; See TEX. ALCO. BEV. CODE ANN.  § 101.63(a) (Vernon 1978). Thus, the court based liability on a breach of a statutorily created duty to the public. Id. at 313.  \n In the present case, the facts are clearly distinguishable from the El Chico situation. Unlike the situation where alcohol is sold to intoxicated persons, the Security defendants did not intentionally provide the decedent with the instrument, i.e., the gun. The evidence is uncontroverted that the decedent stole the gun from Pringle. The police report, Pringle's affidavit, and Pringle's Incident Report are in agreement on this point. There is no evidence that Pringle gave the weapon to the decedent. Thus, the El Chico reasoning does not apply to these facts. \n Appellant further asserts that the security guard was subjected to the higher degree of care imposed upon persons having custody of firearms or other dangerous [*13]  instrumentalities.  See Underwood v. United States, 356 F.2d 92 (5th Cir. 1966); Winborn v. Mayo, 434 S.W.2d 207 (Tex. Civ. App.--San Antonio 1968, no writ). However, "the law generally as to the handling of firearms requires reasonable or ordinary care, or a degree of care commensurate with the danger." Underwood, 356 F.2d at 99 (quoting 94 C.J.S. Weapons § 28a (1956). In Mayo, the court stated, "the reasonable care which persons using firearms are bound to take in order to avoid injury to others is a care proportionate to the probability of injury." Mayo, 434 S.W.2d at 208. Both of these cases apply directly to the fact pattern in which the person charged with negligence was using his firearm.  \n Here, the question is whether Pringle exercised "ordinary care" in securing the weapon. Again, it is uncontested that the decedent removed the gun from Pringle's holster without the officer's consent. Although there is some dispute as to whether the holster was snapped, this is insufficient to raise a material fact issue. There is no evidence that anyone at the hotel, including Pringle, had any reason to be on notice that the decedent presented a danger to himself [*14]  or others. It is established by the summary judgment evidence that, prior to taking the gun, the decedent had not made any provocative or threatening statements. \n Jones alleged that the hotel defendants also breached a duty of care owed to him. Landowners and occupiers owe various duties of care to visitors, depending on the status of the visitor. Silva v. Spohn Health Sys. Corp., 951 S.W.2d 91, 94 (Tex. App.--Corpus Christi 1997, writ denied). An invitee is one on the premises with the "express or implied invitation of the owner or occupant . . . ." Id. at 94. Invitees are owed "the ordinary care that a reasonably prudent person would exercise." Corbin v. Safeway Stores, Inc., 648 S.W.2d 292, 295 (Tex. 1983). However, if the invitee knows of the dangers of the premises then there is no duty. Id. \n Jones knew that the decedent had a "long history" of depression. He also knew that the decedent had asked him to bring a gun to the hotel. The defendants had no indication that the decedent was mentally troubled. Therefore, the Hotel defendants are not liable under an invitee theory. \n A business may be subject to liability for the criminal acts of third parties. Holder  [*15]   v. Mellon Mortgage Co., 954 S.W.2d 786, 796 (Tex. App.--Houston [14th Dist.] 1997, pet. granted) (relying on RESTATEMENT (SECOND) OF TORTS § 344 (1965)). However, the owner is not an insurer of the visitor's safety. He is ordinarily under no duty to exercise any care unless until he knows that the acts are occurring, or are about to occur. Id. If we apply this rule by analogy to this case, the Hotel defendants would be under no duty to prevent the suicide unless and until they had reason to know it was about to occur. There is nothing in the facts to suggest that anyone at the hotel, with the exception of Jones, knew that the decedent was suicidal. \n Alternatively, Jones may be deemed a licensee. Generally, the only duty owed to a licensee is not to injure him willfully, wantonly, or through gross negligence. Flint v. Mickelsen, 781 S.W.2d 409, 410 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1989, no writ). An exception to the rule exists where the licensor has actual knowledge of a dangerous condition, and the licensee does not. Id. In such a case, the licensee can recover for ordinary negligence. Id. Here, not only did the Hotel defendants have no knowledge of the dangerous [*16]  condition, it is uncontested that Jones did have such knowledge. Thus, Jones can only recover under a licensee theory by proving willful, wanton, or grossly negligent conduct. \n Gross negligence is defined as "such affirmative, wanton, heedless, and reckless misconduct as to indicate a conscious indifference to consequences." Thomas v. Southern Lumber Co., 181 S.W.2d 111, 115 (Tex. Civ. App.--Waco 1944, no writ). There is no evidence to suggest that the conduct of the hotel defendants fits this definition. \n We conclude that under the facts of this case, summary judgment for the defendants was proper. Accordingly, we overrule Jones' points of error and affirm the judgment. \n Margaret Garner Mirabal \n Justice \n Panel consists of Justices Mirabal, Hedges, and Andell.   \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 