Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n Appellant representative challenged the decision of the 116th Judicial District Court, Dallas County (Texas), which granted summary judgment for appellee doctors and hospital, finding that they were not guilty of medical malpractice. \n Overview \n Appellant representative brought a medical malpractice against under the Texas Wrongful Death Act and the Texas Survival Statute, Tex. Civ. Prac. & Rem. Code Ann. §§ 71.001, 71.002, 71.021 (1986). She claimed that the trial court erred in granting summary judgment for appellee doctors and hospital as their treatment of the deceased was the proximate cause of death from breast cancer. On appeal, the court affirmed. The treatment of the deceased by appellees was not shown to be the proximate cause of death, as it was necessary to show more than a reasonable medical probability that absent any deficiency in treatment, she would not have died. While appellees failed to detect the breast cancer initially, there was failure to establish the causal connection other than by mere conjecture, which was not sufficient to hold appellees liable for medical malpractice. \n Outcome \n The court affirmed the grant of summary judgment for appellee doctors and hospital, as appellant representative failed to establish that a deficiency in treatment was the proximate cause leading to the death of the deceased from breast cancer. \n Judges: Before Justices Ovard, James, and Hankinson.  Opinion By Justice James  \n Opinion by: TOM JAMES \n Opinion \n  \n  \n OPINION \n Opinion By Justice James \n Tony Ray Simpson (Simpson) appeals from a summary judgment granted in favor of Robert Eugene Coats, Jr., D.O., Sami Constantine, M.D., and Paracelsus Mesquite Hospital, Inc. (PMH). In three points of error, Simpson complains generally the trial court erred in granting summary judgment for the appellees. Because Coats and Constantine established as a matter of law their treatment of Nancy Kay Simpson (Mrs. Simpson) was not the proximate cause of her death and the claim against PMH is derivative of the claims against Coats and Constantine, we affirm the trial court's judgment. In four cross-points of error, PMH contends generally the trial court erred in not granting summary judgment in favor of PMH based upon: (1) the statute of limitations; (2) Coats not being an agent or representative [*2]  of PMH; and (3) PMH's lack of negligence. Because we overrule Simpson's points of error, we do not reach PMH's cross-points of error. \n  \n FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND \n Mrs. Simpson first visited the Seagoville Medical Center (the Medical Center) on April 15, 1991. The Medical Center is owned by PMH. Mrs. Simpson complained of a lump in her right breast. Coats examined Mrs. Simpson's breasts, which were symmetrical with no palpable masses or nodes. \n Mrs. Simpson next visited the Medical Center on June 11, 1991. Mrs. Simpson again complained of a mass in her right breast. Coats performed another physical examination of Mrs. Simpson's breasts. Coats referred Mrs. Simpson for a mammography and collected blood for a routine laboratory examination. The mammography report indicated no evidence of a dominant mass or malignancy. The results of the routine laboratory tests were within normal limits. \n Mrs. Simpson visited the Medical Center again on July 29, 1991. Coats performed another physical examination of Mrs. Simpson's breasts. Coats detected a lesion. Coats saw Mrs. Simpson for the last time on September 26, 1991. Coats referred Mrs. Simpson to Constantine. \n Constantine saw Mrs.  [*3]  Simpson on September 30, 1991. Constantine performed a physical examination. Constantine did not detect a discrete mass. Constantine did not refer Mrs. Simpson to a surgeon for a biopsy because the mammogram taken three months earlier indicated only fibrocystic changes. \n Mrs. Simpson was diagnosed with breast cancer on November 4, 1991. She died on March 14, 1993. \n Simpson brought a medical negligence cause of action under the Texas Wrongful Death Act and the Texas Survival Statute. 1  Constantine and Coats filed motions for summary judgment. Each motion contends Mrs. Simpson's treatment complied with the applicable standard of care and that her treatment was not the proximate cause of her death. The trial court granted Coats's and Constantine's motions for summary judgment without stating the basis upon which the motion for summary judgment was granted. \n PMH also filed a motion for summary judgment. PMH's motion contends Simpson's [*4]  claims against PMH were derivative of Simpson's claims against Coats. It also contends Simpson's claims were barred by the statute of limitations, Coats was not an agent or representative of PMH, and PMH was not negligent in permitting Coats to practice at the Medical Center. The trial court granted PMH's motion for summary judgment because Simpson's claims against PMH were derivative of Simpson's claims against Coats. \n STANDARD OF REVIEW \n Summary judgment is designed to eliminate unmerited claims or untenable defenses; it is not intended to deprive litigants of their right to a full hearing on fact issues.  Compton v. Calabria, 811 S.W.2d 945, 949 (Tex. App.--Dallas 1991, no writ) (citing Gulbenkian v. Penn, 151 Tex. 412, 416, 252 S.W.2d 929, 931 (1952)). The trial court renders its decision on summary judgment based upon "(i) the deposition transcripts, interrogatory answers, and other discovery responses referenced or set forth in the motion or response, and (ii) the pleadings, admissions, affidavits . . . on file at the time of the hearing." TEX. R. CIV. P. 166a(c). In reviewing a summary judgment record, this Court applies the following standards: \n 1. The movant [*5]  for summary judgment has the burden of showing that there is no genuine issue of material fact and that it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. \n 2. In deciding whether there is a disputed material fact issue precluding summary judgment, evidence favorable to the nonmovant will be taken as true. \n  \n  \n 3. Every reasonable inference must be indulged in favor of the nonmovant and any doubts resolved in its favor. \n  Nixon v. Mr. Property Management Co., 690 S.W.2d 546, 548-49 (Tex. 1985). \n For the defendant, as movant, to prevail on a summary judgment, it must either (1) disprove at least one element of the plaintiff's theory of recovery or (2) plead and conclusively establish each essential element of an affirmative defense, thereby rebutting the plaintiff's cause of action. Zep Mfg. Co. v. Harthcock, 824 S.W.2d 654, 657 (Tex. App.--Dallas 1992, no writ). An issue is conclusively established if ordinary minds cannot differ about the conclusion to be drawn from the evidence.  Triton Oil & Gas Corp. v. Marine Contractors & Supply, Inc., 644 S.W.2d 443, 446 (Tex. 1982). \n Once the movant has established a right to summary judgment, the non-movant's [*6]  response must expressly present any reasons seeking to avoid the movant's entitlement, and such reasons must be supported by summary judgment proof establishing a fact issue.  Westland Oil Dev. Corp. v. Gulf Oil Corp., 637 S.W.2d 903, 907 (Tex. 1982). \n APPLICABLE LAW \n To establish proximate cause, the plaintiff must prove: (1) the defendant should have anticipated the danger that resulted from the negligence, Doe v. Greater Boys Clubs of Greater Dallas, Inc., 907 S.W.2d 472, 478 (Tex. 1995); and (2) the defendant's negligent act is a substantial factor in bringing about the harm and without which the harm would not have occurred.  Park Place Hosp. v. Estate of Milo, 909 S.W.2d 508, 511 (Tex. 1995). There is no liability for negligent medical treatment that decreases a patient's chance of avoiding death or other medical conditions in cases where the adverse result probably would have occurred anyway.  Kramer v. Lewisville Memorial Hosp., 858 S.W.2d 397, 398 (Tex. 1993). \n In a medical malpractice case, the plaintiff is required to show evidence of a "reasonable medical probability" that the plaintiff's injuries were proximately caused by the negligence of one or more [*7]  defendants.  Park Place Hosp. , 909 S.W.2d at 511. The plaintiff must establish a causal connection beyond the point of conjecture; proof of mere possibilities will not raise a fact issue. See Duff v. Yelin, 751 S.W.2d 175, 176 (Tex. 1988) (doctor's testimony that there were two possible causes of plaintiff's injury was not probative evidence of proximate cause); see also Campos v. Ysleta Gen. Hosp., Inc., 836 S.W.2d 791, 794-95 (Tex. App.--El Paso 1992, writ denied) (doctor's testimony that treatment might have saved patient was not probative evidence of proximate cause). Expert testimony that the patient "may have been saved" if treated sooner is not probative evidence of proximate cause, but only of mere possibility and lost chance of survival.  Bradley v. Rogers, 879 S.W.2d 947, 958 (Tex. App.--Houston [14th Dist.] 1994, writ denied). \n APPLICATION OF LAW TO FACTS \n Coats and Constantine \n  \n In his first and second points of error, Simpson complains the trial court erred in granting summary judgment in favor of Coats and Constantine. Specifically, Simpson contends the summary judgment evidence established fact issues about whether (1) the treatment was negligent,  [*8]  and (2) the treatment was the proximate cause of Mrs. Simpson's death. Coats and Constantine respond the summary judgment evidence established their treatment of Mrs. Simpson was not negligent nor the proximate cause of her death as a matter of law. \n  \n Because the trial court's orders granting summary judgment in favor of Coats and Constantine do not state the basis upon which summary judgment is granted, we will overrule the point of error if we conclude either of the grounds properly before the trial court was established as a matter of law. See Star-Telegram, Inc. v. Doe, 915 S.W.2d 471, 473 (Tex. 1995). \n Coats's affidavit is attached to his motion for summary judgment. Coats states: \n On November 4, 1991, Ms. Simpson was diagnosed as having an infiltrative ductal carcinoma of the right breast. This type of cancer is very aggressive and metastasizes early. Even if Ms. Simpson's breast cancer had been diagnosed on July 29, 1991, there would have been no change in her outcome. (emphasis added) \n We conclude Coats's affidavit testimony established his right to summary judgment because his treatment of Mrs. Simpson was not the proximate cause of her death.  [*9]  See Kramer, 858 S.W.2d at 398; Zep Mfg. Co., 824 S.W.2d at 657. \n Constantine attached his affidavit to his motion for summary judgment. Constantine states that Mrs. Simpson's medical records indicated her breast cancer was diagnosed less than thirty days after her visit with Constantine. Constantine then states that based upon a reasonable degree of medical probability, the delay in detecting Mrs. Simpson's breast cancer did not injure or damage the plaintiffs. We conclude Constantine's affidavit testimony established as a matter of law that based on reasonable medical probability, any deficiency in his treatment of Mrs. Simpson was not the proximate cause of her death. See Kramer, 858 S.W.2d at 398; Zep Mfg. Co., 824 S.W.2d at 657. \n  \n Because Coats and Constantine established their right to summary judgment as a matter of law, this places the burden of establishing a fact issue on proximate cause on Simpson. See Westland Oil Dev. Corp., 637 S.W.2d at 907. Simpson attached to his response to Coats's motion for summary judgment the affidavits of John Calkins, M.D. and Edward Spoll, D.O. and excerpts from the deposition testimony of Coats and Constantine. Simpson [*10]  attached Calkins's affidavit and excerpts from the deposition testimony of Coats and Constantine to his response to Constantine's motion for summary judgment. \n Simpson directs us to the affidavits of Calkins and Spoll. Each states Mrs. Simpson's treatment "may have been a proximate cause of Nancy Simpson's death." Simpson also directs us to the deposition testimony of Coats that early detection of cancer is important so that it can be treated before it is allowed to increase in size. Constantine's deposition testimony is that early detection of cancer is important because "breast cancer is a kind of slow progressing cancer and if you detect it early, the chances are you would be able to give patients better treatment." \n Viewing the summary judgment evidence in the light most favorable to Simpson, we conclude Simpson has failed to provide any probative evidence establishing Mrs. Simpson's treatment was a proximate cause in her death. Calkins's and Spoll's statements that Mrs. Simpson's treatment may have been a proximate cause reflect a mere possibility, not reasonable medical probability. See Duff, 751 S.W.2d at 176. Statements that Mrs. Simpson may have been saved if [*11]  treated sooner are not probative evidence of proximate cause. See Bradley, 879 S.W.2d at 958. \n We also note Coats's and Constantine's deposition testimony involved the discussion of cancer generally, not the specific condition and treatment of Mrs. Simpson. This testimony is not sufficient to establish a fact issue on the proximate cause of Mrs. Simpson's death. \n Coats's and Constantine's summary judgment proof negates as a matter of law one of the essential elements of Simpson's cause of action, proximate cause. Because Coats and Constantine negated an element of Simpson's cause of action, and Simpson failed to come forward with summary judgment evidence sufficient to create a fact issue, we conclude the trial court properly granted summary judgment in favor of Coats and Constantine. See Zep Mfg. Co., 824 S.W.2d at 657. We overrule Simpson's first and second points of error. \n  \n PMH \n In his third point of error, Simpson complains the trial court erred when it granted summary judgment in favor of PMH. Specifically, Simpson contends the summary judgment granted in favor of PMH was premised upon the erroneous granting of summary judgment in favor of Coats. \n In his response [*12]  to PMH's motion for summary judgment and in his brief, Simpson concedes the claims against PMH are premised upon the negligence of Coats and are derivative of Simpson's claims against Coats. Therefore, Simpson concedes that if summary judgment was properly granted in favor of Coats, it was properly granted for PMH. See Gordon v. Ward, 822 S.W.2d 90, 94 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.] 1991, writ denied). Accordingly, we overrule Simpson's third point of error. \n Due to our disposition of Simpson's three points of error, we need not address PMH's four cross-points of error. See TEX. R. APP. P. 90(a). \n We affirm the trial court's judgment. \n TOM JAMES \n JUSTICE  \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 