Case Summary \n  \n  \n Procedural Posture \n Appellant sought review of judgment, in appellee's favor, in a negligence action in the Galveston County Probate Court (Texas). \n Overview \n Appellant hospital sought review of judgment, in appellee former patient's favor, in a negligence suit in connection with the erroneous administering of unprescribed medication. The court rejected appellant's argument that the evidence was legally and factually insufficient to support an award for mental anguish. The court found sufficient probative evidence of the nature, severity, and duration of appellee's mental anguish was presented. The court explained appellant testified to his fright and belief that he would die. The court concluded more than a scintilla of evidence supported the mental anguish award. The court rejected the argument that there was insufficient evidence of proximate cause. The court explained the nurse was competent to present expert testimony about medical causation. The court noted the nurse testified about the record of incorrect medication and patients' common experience of anxiety about such mistakes. The court found the jury award was not excessive. The court rejected the argument that it was error to submit the case, explaining certain relationships, including patient physician, supported emotional distress awards absent showing of physical injury. \n Outcome \n The court affirmed judgment, in appellee's favor, because sufficient legal and factual evidence of appellant's negligence in administering improper medication and appellee's resulting anxiety and fright was presented to the jury to support a mental anguish award. The court found the exclusion of cumulative evidence was not reversible error. \n Judges: Davie L. Wilson, Justice. Panel consists of Justices Mirabal, Wilson, and Taft.   \n Opinion by: DAVIE L. WILSON \n Opinion \n  \n  \n OPINION \n Appellant, The University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston (UTMB), appeals a jury verdict in favor of appellee, Paul Danesi. We affirm. \n  \n Factual Background \n On April 26, 1991, Mr. Danesi was admitted to UTMB. Mr. Danesi complained of pain in his legs which was eventually diagnosed as blood clots. Mr. Danesi claims that, on May 5, 1991, during his hospital stay, he was given the wrong medication by the UTMB nursing staff. On the same day, he suffered an episode of unrelated congestive heart failure or volume overload. 1  Thereafter, Mr. Danesi filed suit against UTMB for negligence. \n  [*2]  Mr. Danesi proceeded to trial on his second amended petition which alleged that UTMB's negligence in administering the wrong medication caused him to suffer from anxiety, shortness of breath, and emotional distress. Mr. Danesi sought $ 100,000.00 in actual damages. \n At trial, Mr. Danesi testified that on May 5, 1991, he became concerned he had been given a sleeping pill which had not been prescribed for him. Mr. Danesi had his wife, Mrs. Danesi, checked to see if it was the wrong medication. Mrs. Danesi reviewed Mr. Danesi's chart at the nurse's station. Mrs. Danesi noted the chart showed that Mr. Danesi had been given Diabenese and Isordil. 2  Mrs. Danesi stated she had never known Mr. Danesi to have been prescribed those medications. \n Mrs. Danesi testified that upon seeing the chart she became very nervous and upset. Mrs. Danesi testified that when she returned [*3]  to her husband's room, he was very hyper, nervous, and anxious. Because of her husband's condition, Mrs. Danesi demanded to see the doctor on call. Mrs. Danesi testified a doctor, later identified as Dr. Yorkowski, told her the medications had been given in error. Mrs. Danesi testified that at this point, Mr. Danesi became worse. Mrs. Danesi stated her husband was sweating, short of breath, and anxious. After attempting to calm Mr. Danesi down, Mrs. Danesi went home. \n After arriving home, Mrs. Danesi received a telephone call from her husband. Mrs. Danesi testified her husband was frightened, very short of breath, and stated that he could not get his breath and was dying. Mrs. Danesi immediately returned to the hospital. When she arrived she noticed her husband was very pale. He had an oxygen mask on and was being given shots, an IV, and an electrocardiogram. \n Mr. Danesi testified that when he made the telephone call he thought he was dying. He attributed all his stress that day to the medication errors. Specifically, Mr. Danesi testified as follows: \n Q. All of the anxiety and mental anguish and stress that you went through on May 5, 1991, do you believe that, in your mind, that was [*4]  related to the medication errors. \n A. Yeah. \n Q. So, on that day, all of this anxiety that the doctor talked about that you told him about on May 6, when you told the doctor about your anxiety due to the medication errors, is that what you told the doctor? \n A. Yes. \n . . . . \n Q. Is the anxiety that you have because of the fears in getting a wrong medication each day when you go to take your medications, do you feel as though that is related back to May 5, 1991? \n A. Yes. \n Mrs. Danesi also testified concerning the effects of the incident. She stated Mr. Danesi is apprehensive and nervous when he takes medication and she now has to write down when he takes his medication. Mrs. Danesi testified she believes Mr. Danesi's problems and tentativeness concerning medication are related to the May 5, 1991 incident. \n During trial, Susan Adkins, a registered nurse, testified for Mr. Danesi concerning the standard of care used by a registered nurse in the administering of medication. Adkins also testified about the reactions of patients who have been given the wrong medication. Adkins testified that in many instances a patient who is made aware of the fact he has been given the wrong medication [*5]  will suffer anxiety. Adkins testified she had reviewed Mr. Danesi's hospital record and the procedures of the hospital. Based on this, Adkins testified that Mr. Danesi's records indicated he had received the wrong medications. Adkins additionally stated Mr. Danesi's records reflect he told a doctor that he attributed his shortness of breath to anxiety resulting from the medication error. Finally, Adkins stated the following: \n Q. So, in your experience in reviewing medical records as a nurse and your reviewing these charts, in your opinion is there an indication from the medical records and notations of UTMB doctors that Mr. Danesi had anxiety due to these medication errors? \n A. Yes, by the documentation it describes this patient as being anxious and having anxiety. And it was a documented by a physician, an MD. \n Q. And also shortness of breath? \n A. Yes, he was short of breath as documented by the physician. \n UTMB contested that Mr. Danesi ever received the wrong medication. Both nurses who were on duty at the times in question testified that, although Mr. Danesi's chart indicated he received medication which was not prescribed, he in fact did not take the wrong medication. The [*6]  nurses testified Mr. Danesi's chart had been mistakenly swapped with another patient's chart. \n In addition, UTMB presented the expert testimony of Dr. Marschall Runge, a cardiologist, who testified Mr. Danesi's congestive heart failure was unrelated to any medications he may have received. Dr. Runge testified that, based on his expert opinion, Mr. Danesi never received the contested medications because he lacked the symptoms expected from a patient who had received the medications, and that some of the medications would have been beneficial to Mr. Danesi had they actually been administered. Dr. Runge stated the medications would not have caused shortness of breath, but that Mr. Danesi's underlying heart disease would cause this. Dr. Runge also testified Mr. Danesi's anxiety was most likely due to his heart problems. \n  \n Procedural Background \n UTMB twice moved for a directed verdict, at the end of Mr. Danesi's case in chief and at the end of its own. The trial court denied both motions. The case was submitted to the jury who returned a verdict in favor of Mr. Danesi for $ 300,000.00. The jury questions were as follows: \n  Question No. 1 \n Do you find that the University of [*7]  Texas Medical Branch at Galveston, through its employees, administered the drug Diabenase and/or Isordil to Plaintiff on May 5, 1991? \n Yes \n  Question No. 2 \n Was the administration of the drug Diabenase and/or Isordil by the University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston to the Plaintiff on May 5, 1991, negligence? \n Yes \n  Question No. 3 \n Was the negligent administration of Diabenase and/or Isordil by the University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston to the Plaintiff on May 5, 1991 a proximate cause of an injury to Plaintiff? \n Yes \n  Question No. 4 \n What sum of money, if paid now in cash, would fairly and reasonably compensate Paul Danesi for his injuries, if any, that resulted from the occurrence in question? \n Consider the elements of damages listed below and none other. Consider each element separately. Do not include damages for one element in any other element. Do not include interest on any amount of damages you find. \n a. Physical pain and mental anguish. \n b. Loss of earning capacity. \n c. Medical expenses. \n Answer in dollars and cents for damages, if any, that were sustained in the past and that in reasonable probability will be sustained in the future.  \n  [*8]  Answer: $ 300,000.00 \n UTMB filed a motion for judgment non obstante verdicto, which was denied. Mr. Danesi filed a post verdict motion to amend his pleadings to conform his damages claim to the jury verdict, which the trial court allowed. The trial court additionally allowed Mr. Danesi's voluntary remittitur to bring the damages award in line with section 101.0215 of the Civil Practice and Remedies Code which limits the amount of damages that can be recovered against the state or a state agency to a sum in the amount of $ 250,000.00. The trial court then rendered judgment in favor of Mr. Danesi for $ 250,000.00. UTMB filed a motion for new trial, which was denied. \n  \n Legal and Factual Sufficiency \n In point of error one, UTMB argues the trial court erred in awarding damages for mental anguish because the evidence was insufficient to support any recovery. The standard of review for sufficiency challenges is well established. When reviewing legal and factual sufficiency challenges, an appellate court must first address the legal sufficiency challenge to determine if there is any evidence of probative value to support the jury's finding. Glover v. Texas Gen. Indem. Co., 619 [*9]  S.W.2d 400, 401 (Tex. 1981). In our review of a legal sufficiency or "no evidence" claim, we must consider only the evidence and inferences that tend to support the finding and disregard all evidence and inferences to the contrary. Sherman v. First Nat'l Bank, 760 S.W.2d 240, 242 (Tex. 1988). The finding must be upheld if there is more than a scintilla of evidence to support it. Stedman v. Georgetown Sav. & Loan Ass'n, 595 S.W.2d 486, 488 (Tex. 1979). If, however, the evidence is so weak as to create no more than a mere surmise or suspicion of the existence of the finding, the evidence is no more than a scintilla and is no evidence. Kindred v. Con/Chem., 650 S.W.2d 61, 63 (Tex. 1983). \n If there is some evidence to support the verdict, we must then review the factual sufficiency claim by weighing and considering the evidence both in support of, and contrary to, the challenged finding. Cain v. Bain, 709 S.W.2d 175, 176 (Tex. 1986). The finding must be upheld unless it is so against or contrary to the overwhelming weight of the evidence as to be clearly wrong and manifestly unjust. Id. The trier of fact is the sole judge of the credibility of the witnesses and the [*10]  weight to be given their testimony. Herbert v. Herbert, 754 S.W.2d 141, 144 (Tex. 1988). \n In addressing a sufficiency point of error concerning mental anguish damages, the Texas Supreme Court has provided the following guidance: \n An award of mental anguish damages will survive a legal sufficiency challenge when the plaintiffs have introduced direct evidence of the nature, duration, and severity of their mental anguish, thus establishing a substantial disruption in the plaintiffs' daily routine. Such evidence, whether in the form of the claimants' own testimony, that of third parties, or that of experts, is more likely to provide the fact finder with adequate details to assess mental anguish claims. \n . . . .  \n When claimants fail to present direct evidence of the nature, duration, or severity of their anguish, we apply traditional "no evidence" standards to determine whether the record reveals any evidence of a "high degree of mental pain and distress" that is "more than mere worry, anxiety, vexation, embarrassment, or anger" to support any award of damages. \n . . . . \n As we have noted, historically, some types of disturbing or shocking injuries have been found sufficient to support [*11]  an inference that the injury was accompanied by mental anguish. As a general matter, though, qualifying events have demonstrated a threat to one's physical safety or reputation or involved the death of, or serious injury to, a family member. \n  \n  Parkway Co. v Woodruff, 901 S.W.2d 434, 444-45 (Tex. 1995) (citations omitted). \n Mr. Danesi presented direct evidence of the nature, duration, and severity of his mental anguish. Mr. Danesi testified the incident frightened him and caused stress and anxiety. Mr. Danesi also testified he thought he was going to die on the day he received the wrong medication. Mrs. Danesi testified the incident caused her husband to sweat and have shortness of breath and to become extremely anxious and nervous. In addition, Mr. Danesi's medical record contained a note from a doctor concerning Mr. Danesi's anxiety over the medication error. The testimony further demonstrated the incident continues to be a disruption in Mr. Danesi's daily life. Both Mr. and Mrs. Danesi testified as to how the incident still affects them. Mr. Danesi still fears getting the wrong medication, and his wife has to carefully monitor his medications. \n UTMB did put on testimony that [*12]  Mr. Danesi did not receive the wrong medication and that his anxiety was in fact caused by his congestive heart failure. However, the trier of fact is the sole judge of the credibility of the witnesses and the weight to be given the testimony. We will not substitute our judgment for that of the trier of fact. \n In reviewing only the evidence and inferences that tend to support the verdict, we conclude that more than a scintilla of evidence supporting an award of damages for mental anguish. In addition, in weighing and considering the evidence both in support of and contrary to the challenged finding, we hold the jury's finding of mental anguish damages was not so against or contrary to the overwhelming weight of the evidence as to be clearly wrong and manifestly unjust. We, therefore, hold the evidence was legally and factually sufficient to support the jury's award of mental anguish damages. \n We overrule point of error one. \n In point of error two, UTMB argues the trial court erred in denying its motion for directed verdict, motion for judgment non obstante verdicto, and motion for new trial because there was insufficient evidence to establish proximate cause between any act of UTMB [*13]  and the mental anguish, additional hospitalization and medical expenses, or loss of earning capacity suffered by Mr. Danesi. UTMB specifically contends there was no competent expert medical testimony to support the jury's answer to question number three concerning proximate cause. \n In addressing this sufficiency point of error, we follow the same standard of review set out under point of error one. In a medical malpractice case, the plaintiff is required to show evidence of a reasonable medical probability or reasonable probability that his injuries were proximately caused by the negligence of one or more defendants.  Park Place Hosp. v. Estate of Milo, 909 S.W.2d 508, 511 (Tex. 1995). To be entitled to submit the issue of proximate cause, the plaintiff must prove a causal connection between the act of negligence and the subsequent injury beyond the point of mere conjecture.  Klug v. Ramirez, 830 S.W.2d 801, 804 (Tex. App.--Corpus Christi 1992, no writ). Additionally, in a medical malpractice suit, the proximate causation element must be proven, as a general rule, by expert medical testimony.  Lesser v. St. Elizabeth Hosp., 807 S.W.2d 657, 659 (Tex. App.--Houston [1st Dist.]  [*14]  1991, no writ). Nurses can qualify as medical experts. Id. Therefore, a nurse or other medical professional, through specialized experience or training, might be very qualified to give testimony about medical causation. \n Adkins, a registered nurse, testified concerning the standard of care and causation concerning Mr. Danesi's injuries. Adkins testified she had been a registered nurse since 1976. At the time of trial, she worked for a pediatric orthopedic surgeon. Adkins testified she had worked in several hospitals as a registered nurse and had even been a head nurse. At one hospital, she was in charge of a 42-bed unit with a mix of different patients including cancer, heart, and maternity patients. \n Adkins testified that part of her duties as a nurse required her to administer medications ordered by physicians. Adkins testified she reviewed the medical records of Mr. Danesi and the medication policy and procedure manual for UTMB. Based on this, Adkins stated the UTMB nurses did not meet the standard of care for a nurse administering medication to a patient. Adkins also testified Mr. Danesi's medical records show he was administered the wrong medication on more than one occasion.  [*15]  Adkins noted Mr. Danesi's medical records indicated Mr. Danesi had told a doctor that some of his symptoms were attributable to his anxiety over the medication error. Adkins further testified it is common for patients to experience anxiety and apprehensiveness after being administered the wrong medications, and she could see how this incident could create anxiety and nervousness in a patient. \n UTMB put on conflicting testimony that Mr. Danesi's chart had been mistakenly swapped with another patient's chart. Dr. Runge testified that based on his expert opinion, Mr. Danesi never received the contested medications because he lacked the symptoms expected from a patient who had received the medications and that some of the medications would have been beneficial to Mr. Danesi had they actually been administered. \n In reviewing only the evidence and inferences that tend to support the verdict, we find more than a scintilla of evidence supporting the jury's finding that UTMB's negligence proximately caused Mr. Danesi's injuries. In addition, in weighing and considering the evidence both in support of and contrary to the challenged finding, we hold the jury's finding of proximate cause was not [*16]  so against or contrary to the overwhelming weight of the evidence as to be clearly wrong and manifestly unjust. We, therefore, hold the evidence was legally and factually sufficient to support the jury's finding of proximate cause. \n We overrule point of error two. \n In point of error three, UTMB argues that the jury's award was excessive and not supported by the evidence at trial and the trial court erred in denying its motion for judgment non obstante verdicto and its motion for new trial. \n We again follow the same standard of review set out under point of error one. Question number four asked the jury what sum of money would fairly and reasonably compensate Mr. Danesi for his injuries considering three different elements of damages. The jury was not asked to specify the amount of damages for each element. The jury has great discretion in awarding damages for mental anguish. K Mart Corp. v. Rhyne, 932 S.W.2d 140, 144 (Tex. App.--Texarkana 1996, no writ); see also Martin v. Texas Dental Plans, Inc., 948 S.W.2d 799, 805 (Tex. App.--San Antonio 1997, no writ). Thus, the jury could have awarded the entire amount on the basis of the physical pain and mental anguish element.  Rhyne,  [*17]  932 S.W.2d at 144. \n Although the jury is given discretion in calculating mental anguish damages, that discretion is limited. Saenz v. Fidelity & Guar. Ins. Underwriters, 925 S.W.2d 607, 614 (Tex. 1996). Juries cannot simply pick a number and put it in the blank. Id. They must find an amount that, in the standard language of the jury charge, would fairly and reasonably compensate for the loss. Id. There must be evidence that the amount found is fair and reasonable compensation. Id. \n We again note the extensive direct testimony of Mr. and Mrs. Danesi concerning the effect the medication error had on Mr. Danesi. In reviewing the evidence and applying these standards to all the evidence in the present case, we hold that the evidence is both legally and factually sufficient to support the jury's award. \n We overrule point of error three. \n  \n Emotional Distress \n In point of error four, UTMB argues the trial court erred in allowing Mr. Danesi to recover on a cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress. UTMB argues the trial court erred in submitting the cause to the jury because Mr. Danesi's second amended original petition claimed only that Mr. Danesi [*18]  suffered shortness of breath, anxiety, and emotional distress. UTMB contends this was an attempt to state a cause of negligent infliction of emotional distress in violation of the Texas Supreme Court's holding in Boyles v. Kerr, 855 S.W.2d 593 (Tex. 1993). \n  \n In Krishnan v. Sepulveda, 916 S.W.2d 478, 482 (Tex. 1995) the Court stated there are certain relationships which give rise to a duty which, if breached, would support an emotional distress award even absent proof of physical injury. The physician/patient relationship is one such relationship. Id. We therefore conclude that the trial court did not err in submitting the cause to the jury. \n We overrule point of error four. \n  \n Previous Medical History \n In point of error five, UTMB argues the trial court erred in refusing to allow UTMB to introduce evidence of the previous medical history of Mr. Danesi regarding his problems with anxiety and the deposition testimony of Adkins. \n The admission and exclusion of evidence is committed to the trial court's sound discretion.  City of Brownsville v. Alvarado, 897 S.W.2d 750, 753 (Tex. 1995). For the admission or exclusion of evidence to constitute reversible error,  [*19]  an appellant must show (1) the trial court committed error and (2) the error was reasonably calculated to cause and probably did cause rendition of an improper judgment.  McCraw v. Maris, 828 S.W.2d 756, 757 (Tex. 1992). It is not necessary that the complaining party prove that, but for the error, a different judgment would necessarily have been rendered, but only that the error probably resulted in the rendition of an improper judgment.  Alvarado, 897 S.W.2d at 753. A successful challenge to evidentiary rulings usually requires the complaining party to show that the judgment turns on the particular evidence excluded or admitted.  897 S.W.2d at 753-54. The exclusion of cumulative evidence is not reversible error. Reina v. General Accident Fire & Life Assurance Corp., 611 S.W.2d 415, 417 (Tex. 1981). \n  \n Mr. Danesi's Prior Medical Records \n UTMB complains that the trial court committed reversible error in not allowing it to read three separate references from Mr. Danesi's prior medical records to the jury for impeachment purposes. The excluded references concerned Mr. Danesi's prior depression and anxiety. The excluded references are as follows: \n Mr. Danesi being followed [*20]  for hypertension atrial fib and stroke without residual. He has been doing well, denying chest pains, palpitations, SOB. He has been laid off from his job and is quite stressed over this. \n Mr. Danesi being followed for atrial flutter fibrillation. He has no complaints referable to his heart, however, he is complaining of lack of energy, depression, increased irritability. This has been going on for the past several weeks. He does not know why he is feeling so depressed. He is not tearful and denies general mood variations or sleep disturbances. There have been no chest pains, dizziness, shortness of breath, or palpitations. He continues to pace his left anterior chest with his pacemaker on intermittent basis. Impression: Coronary artery disease. Depression. \n Mr. Danesi was seen in the Pacemaker Clinic as of this date with a chief complaint of peculiar sensation in the left pectoral area while using his left arm above his head and utilizing any degree of strength. Same sensation was reproduced in the Clinic it was noted that there were occasional contractions of pectoral muscles coincidental with pacemaker impulses and felt to the patient as minor degrees of sensation referred above.  [*21]  I believe there is significant degree of anxiety on Mr. Danesi's part because of this event, as well as the fact that he was left handed and certainly his inability at this time to use properly his left arm has created a great deal of concern. I have requested Mr. Danesi to return to see me in four to six weeks at which time I will most likely make final recommendations. \n UTMB contends the above references from Mr. Danesi's medical records provide impeachment to the following testimony of Mr. Danesi: \n Q. You don't recall in 1986 being diagnosed by doctor as suffering from depression? \n A. I never recall that. \n . . . .  \n Q. You don't recall in 1989 talking to a doctor about stress problems you had with your job loss in 1989. \n A. I never recall that. \n Q. You don't recall speaking to doctors previously at any time about any problems you were having with chronic anxiety or stress? \n A. No. \n . . . .  \n Q. The question is you're not here to tell the Jury today, are you, that every anxiety and everything that gives you emotional distress in your life today is a direct result of what happened in 1991. Are you? \n A. Yes. \n Q. Every anxiety that you have is a result of what happened to you [*22]  in 1991? \n A. Yes. \n In reviewing the above excluded evidence, we need not determine if the evidence was admissible because we find the exclusion of the evidence to be harmless. The fact Mr. Danesi was stressed over being laid off from work in 1989, two years before the medication error, is too remote, even if relevant. The fact Mr. Danesi was depressed in 1989 is also not relevant to the present case because he never complained the medication error in 1991 made him depressed. The fact Mr. Danesi may have been anxious about an arm problem 11 years before the medication error is also irrelevant and too remote in time. Finally, such evidence would be cumulative in that Mr. Danesi testified at trial that he had anxiety before 1991. \n  \n Adkins Deposition \n UTMB complains that the trial court committed reversible error in excluding a portion of Adkin's deposition testimony. The excluded questions and answers are as follows: \n Q. Okay. Well, let me restate it then. From what I understand, your testimony [suggests] there are two possibilities. One that this indicates that Mr. Danesi did, indeed, get the wrong medication. Is that correct? \n A. Yes. \n Q. And the other one would be that the [*23]  chart was incorrectly marked with his name and he, in fact, didn't get these medications but his name was stamped on a chart. Is that correct? \n A. Yes. \n Q. My question is based on the two possibilities that we just talked about. And, okay, and the reading of this chart, isn't it just as likely that one happened than the other? \n A. Yes. \n In reviewing the record, we find the above deposition testimony would be cumulative. During its cross-examination of Adkins, UTMB was allowed to ask the very same questions and got the same answers. \n We overrule point of error five. \n Jurisdiction \n In point of error six, UTMB argues the trial court erred in rendering a judgment in excess of the trial court's jurisdictional limits and in excess of the amount pleaded in Mr. Danesi's petition. \n The Probate and County Court of Galveston County has concurrent jurisdiction with district courts over civil cases in which the amount in controversy exceeds $ 500, but does not exceed $ 100,000. TEX. GOV'T CODE ANN.  § 25.003(c)(1) (Vernon Supp. 1999). In Mr. Danesi's original petition, he alleged that his damages were "within the jurisdictional limits of the Court." In his second and third amended [*24]  petitions, he sought recovery of actual damages in the amount of $ 100,000. The jury awarded Mr. Danesi $ 300,000 in damages, which was reduced to $ 250,000 after remittitur. Mr. Danesi amended his pleadings to increase the amount of damages sought in the pleadings to that found by the jury. \n Jurisdiction is based on the allegations in the petition regarding the amount in controversy. Continental Coffee Prods., Co. v. Cazarez, 937 S.W.2d 444, 449 (Tex. 1996). When jurisdiction is once lawfully and properly acquired, no later fact or event can defeat the court's jurisdiction. Id.  In the absence of pleading and proof that the allegations in a plaintiff's original petition have been made fraudulently or in bad faith, the fact that the plaintiff's amended petition alleges damages in excess of the court's jurisdictional limits does not necessarily deprive the court of its jurisdiction.  Cantu v. J. Weingarten's, Inc., 616 S.W.2d 290, 291 (Tex. Civ. App. Houston [1st Dist.] 1981, writ ref'd n.r.e). A trial court may render judgment in excess of its jurisdictional limit when the original amount of damages sought is within the jurisdictional limit of the court and the plaintiff,  [*25]  by subsequent amendment, seeks only additional damages that are accruing because of the passage of time.  Continental Coffee Prods., 937 S.W.2d at 449. \n  \n Both Mr. Danesi and his wife testified he continued to suffer from mental anxiety on a daily basis as a result of being given the wrong medication. The jury award was not only for damages suffered as a result of Mr. Danesi's past injuries, but included an award for future physical pain and mental anguish as well. We conclude Mr. Danesi's damages accrued because of passage of time from the date of the original petition. There is nothing on the face of the petition suggesting, or any evidence in the record proving, that the amount in controversy was fraudulently alleged. In such a case, the averments in the petition control. See Continental Coffee Prod., 937 S.W.2d at 449. \n  \n We overrule point of error six. \n  \n Trial Amendment \n In point of error seven, UTMB argues the trial court erred in allowing Mr. Danesi's postverdict trial amendment. \n A trial court has no discretion to refuse an amendment unless (1) the opposing party presents evidence of surprise or prejudice, or (2) the amendment asserts a new cause [*26]  of action or defense, and thus is prejudicial on its face, and the opposing party objects to the amendment. TEX. R. CIV. P. 66; Greenhalgh v. Service Lloyds Ins. Co., 787 S.W.2d 938, 939 (Tex. 1990); Stephanz v. Laird, 846 S.W.2d 895, 901 (Tex. App. Houston [1st Dist.] 1993, writ denied). The burden of showing prejudice or surprise rests on the party resisting the amendment.  Greenhalgh, 787 S.W.2d at 939. \n UTMB alleges that it was surprised and prejudiced by the trial amendment because it was not afforded an opportunity to dispute the alleged continuing nature of Mr. Danesi's damages at the time of trial. However, in Mr. and Mrs. Danesi's depositions, they both stated he was continuing to have anxiety about taking his medications, indicating that the damages were continuing to accrue. Mr. Danesi's amendment raised no new substantive matters, and we conclude UTMB was not surprised or prejudiced by the amendment because Mr. and Mrs. Danesi's deposition testimony put them on notice that Mr. Danesi's damages were continuing to accrue. Therefore, the trial court properly granted leave to file the amendment. \n We overrule point of error seven. \n The judgment is affirmed. \n Davie [*27]  L. Wilson \n Justice \n Panel consists of Justices Mirabal, Wilson, and Taft.   \n  \n  \n End of Document \n 